The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Man Who Ended War, by Hollis Godfrey

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: The Man Who Ended War

Author: Hollis Godfrey

Illustrator: Charles Grunwald

Release Date: September 1, 2015 [EBook #49848]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE MAN WHO ENDED WAR ***




Produced by Shaun Pinder, Craig Kirkwood, and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This
file was produced from images generously made available
by The Internet Archive.)






Transcriber’s Notes:

Text enclosed by underscores is in italics (_italics_).

Additional Transcriber’s Notes are at the end.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MAN WHO ENDED WAR

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: “THERE’S REGNIER!” I CRIED, POINTING AT THE WINDOW.

  [_Frontispiece. See p. 277._

]

       *       *       *       *       *




THE MAN WHO ENDED WAR


  By
  HOLLIS GODFREY

  Illustrated from drawings by
  CHARLES GRUNWALD

  BOSTON
  LITTLE, BROWN, & COMPANY
  1908

       *       *       *       *       *

  _Copyright, 1908_,
  BY LITTLE, BROWN, AND COMPANY.

  _All rights reserved_

  Published September, 1908

  _COLONIAL PRESS_
  _Electrotyped and Printed by C. H. Simonds & Co._
  _Boston, U. S. A._

       *       *       *       *       *

  TO
  My Wife




LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS


  “THERE’S REGNIER!” I CRIED, POINTING AT
  THE WINDOW                                 _Frontispiece_

  THE OFFICER RAISED HIS LANTERN TWICE            _Page_ 30

  THE SEARCH-LIGHT OF A WARSHIP WAS PLAYING
  CONSTANTLY ON US                                  ”   122

  I FOUND MYSELF COUNTING ALOUD                     ”   247

       *       *       *       *       *




THE MAN WHO ENDED WAR

CHAPTER I


The Secretary of War ended his statement. “That is all there is to
tell, gentlemen, concerning the building of the new transports.”

I had closed my notebook and was rising, as Ordway, the private
secretary, entered.

“May I give the correspondents that freak letter that came this
morning?” he asked. His chief nodded indulgently and left the room. I
opened my notebook expectantly.

“This is a very serious matter, and a great piece of news,” Ordway
remarked in a mock grandiose manner. “It is a declaration of war
against the civilized world in the interests of peace.” He threw
himself into an oratorical posture and began:

  “To the United States of America and to all other nations--Greeting!”

  “Whereas war has too long devastated the earth and the time has now
  come for peace, I, the man destined to stop all war, hereby declare
  unto you that you shall, each and all, disarm; that your troops shall
  be disbanded, your navies sunk or turned to peaceful ends, your
  fortifications dismantled. One year from this date will I allow for
  disarmament and no more. At the end of that time, if no heed has been
  paid to my injunction, I will destroy, in rapid succession, every
  battleship in the world. By the happenings of the next two months you
  shall know that my words are the words of truth.

  “Given under my hand and seal this first of June, 19--

  “Signed--

    “THE MAN WHO WILL STOP ALL WAR.”

Ordway ceased and a laughing clamor rose.

“The biggest crank yet.” “Where was it mailed?” “I thought you said you
had something really good this time.” “Do you suppose he sent it to any
other country than the United States?”

Ordway raised his hand for a hearing and replied to the last question.
“The letter was mailed from London, and was sent to other countries.
I read the missive to one of the English attachés when it came, and
he looked the matter up. This notice has been sent to all the foreign
chancelleries, as well as the departments of war and of the navy. It
has been done in such a wholesale fashion that I thought you could use
it for a column anyway.”

“But is it such a fool idea?” asked Reid, one of the older
correspondents. “Couldn’t a man build a submarine in which he could run
amuck and destroy battleship after battleship, something as old Jules
Verne’s Captain Nemo did?”

“Not to-day,” said Ordway emphatically. “The new armor of the last
years, with its permanent torpedo nets, has stopped all that. The only
way you can destroy a modern battleship is by ramming, or by another
battleship. The day of the torpedo boat and of the submarine ended
almost as it began.”

“Well,” said Reid argumentatively, “why couldn’t a man have a
battleship? Any one of five hundred men living to-day could afford it.”

“No battleship could be built by a private citizen without some nation
knowing it and stopping it,” said Ordway seriously. “It takes months,
reaching into years, to build one. It takes skilled naval constructors,
hundreds of workmen and thousands of tons of material that must be
bought in the markets of the world.”

“Let’s see the paper it’s written on,” I said.

As I held the message, Reid looked over my shoulder and read for a
moment. Then, turning, he cried, “Come over here, boys, and look at
this a little more closely. That’s old parchment, just like that of
some of those papal bulls in the glass cases over in the library.”

As he spoke a sudden remembrance flashed across me. “Anybody got a
microscope around here?” I asked quickly.

“There’s a reading glass,” said Ordway, and opening a drawer he handed
one to me. I took the paper to the sunlit window, and began examining
it closely with the lens. The rest watched me curiously. At last I
shook my head. “No use,” I exclaimed. “I thought I had a clue, but it
didn’t pan out. There’s a good story though, without anything more.
Here, Ordway,” and I handed back the letter.

The other correspondents moved away, seeking fresh fields for copy, but
I lingered a moment as John King, my classmate at Columbia and my good
friend, stepped forward to bid Ordway good-bye. As I watched his deeply
lined, melancholy face and his emaciated form, I wondered if wealth had
not come to him too late.

“Good-bye, Ordway,” said John. “This is the last you’ll see of me. I’m
through with the daily grind at six o’clock to-night.”

“I’m sorry to hear that in one way, King,” said Ordway gravely. “I
felt last year when you went abroad that you were running down hill and
I expected, when I heard you had come into your uncle’s money, that you
would pull out. What are you going to do?”

“Oh! I shall travel again for a bit,” replied John. “There are some
things I want to do before I get through with this old earth, if I am
to get through.”

“You’ll be all right,” answered Ordway. “I only wish I had your chance.
There’s my bell now. You see how it is--tied like a slave to the wheels
of the chariot, etc. But good luck, anyway, and good-bye.”

He gave John a friendly grasp, and as he turned away, threw the massive
folded sheet, which he still held, into the waste basket. “I guess we
won’t file that with the state documents,” he said laughing. “Good-bye,
and good luck once more.”

We parted and John and I started down the corridor. We had gone but
a few steps when exclaiming, “There, I’ve left my stick,” I turned
swiftly back, recovered the letter from its place in the waste basket,
and emerged with my cane. Silently we walked down the broad avenue
until, just before we reached my office, I turned sharply.

“Come in here,” I said, dragging John into a café. We sat down at one
of the small tables. “You used to do the Smithsonian and scientific
stories for your paper, didn’t you?” I asked.

John was sitting staring into vacancy. He paid no attention to my
question and I repeated it twice before he turned nervously with a
shake of the head and asked sharply, “What is it?”

I repeated the question once more.

“Yes,” he said abstractedly.

“Well, who do you know that owns any radium?”

He thought for a moment and said slowly, “Why, the Smithsonian people
have a little, of course, and there’s some in half a dozen places in
the city.”

“But from whom could we get some most easily?” I inquired.

“Oh! I know,” he answered. “Dorothy Haldane has some. She’s here in
Washington working with part of her brother’s radium, and she’s with
her cousin Mrs. Hartnell.”

“Who’s Dorothy Haldane? Any relation to Tom Haldane who was just ahead
of us, the chap who went into the Physical Laboratory at Columbia and
who’s doing private research now?”

“His sister. She is Barnard A. M., and his research assistant.”

“Regular bluestocking,” I remarked with some dislike, for the learned
research woman never appealed to me.

“Oh, no,” said John. “Not at all. She is one of the prettiest, nicest
girls I ever knew.”

“Any feeling about your remarks, John?” I said hopefully.

“Of course not,” he answered with some irritation. “There’ll never be
any more feeling. Since Anna’s death there can’t be. I know you’ll like
Dorothy, though. What do you want her radium for?”

“There’s just a chance that I may have a scoop, and if you’ll take me
up there to-night I’ll let you in.”

“I’ll take you up there,” said John, “but you can have your scoop to
yourself. For the last word of copy I ever write will be in print
before we call.”

That afternoon came an unexpected Cabinet change. For hours I
interviewed, and wrote, telephoned and telegraphed, reaching my room at
half after eight, to find John just ready to leave without me. He had
written the story of the man who was to stop all war, only to see it
killed by more important news. His experience had been that of every
man in the secretary’s office, a common fate in the crowding rush of
newspaper life. I had never seen John more distrait than that night,
and we walked up to the Hartnells’ in utter silence.

I so completely expected, despite John’s assurances, to find a
stooping, bespectacled student type inside the Hartnells’ door, that
the girl who rose as I entered gave me a sudden shock of amazement
and delight. She was the sunniest, daintiest type of American girl you
could meet the country through. Her mobile face was lit with glowing
life and interest in the world around. Her fine firm form showed no
trace of scholastic life. Her laugh was like rippling water. Her eyes
held the fine deep beauty of a summer’s night. With her was a dark and
clear-cut Southerner who was introduced to me as Richard Regnier. The
talk went hither and thither until John broached my search for radium.

“What is your need of radium, Mr. Orrington?” said Miss Haldane.

I hesitated for a moment and John broke in. “Don’t be afraid of
Regnier, Jim. He’s no newspaper man. He’s a reformer like myself. We’re
co-members of the Tuberculosis League and the Civic League and the
Peace Society. Now what’s up? You haven’t told me yet.”

So urged, I told the story of the morning and brought forth the heavy
parchment which I had retrieved from the waste basket. Regnier sat
immobile during the whole tale, though Dorothy broke into it with
pointed questions a dozen times.

“That’s what I want the radium for,” I said in ending.

“But what has radium to do with that letter?” asked John.

“Just this,” I replied. “As you may have seen, I held that letter to
the light under a reading glass, which acted as a burning glass, for
some minutes. I was looking for invisible ink, which could be brought
out by heating. I didn’t find any, but as I turned away, the paper came
for a moment into the shadow and I saw a slight gleam like the glimmer
of phosphorescence on water. Now last year I met an old scientist, Von
Meyren, who happened to mention that he had found that certain inks
which had been used for parchments in olden times held a substance
which becomes phosphorescent when exposed to radium. He got a second
letter in that way once, from beneath a message one of the Popes sent
to a king of France. You see parchment was and is expensive, and hard
to get. They used the same piece over and over again, removing the old
inks by scraping or dissolving. Somehow the radium brought out the
stuff that had been apparently removed. When Reid said ‘Papal Bulls’
it gave me an idea. It is barely possible that the man who wrote the
letter might have written something on that piece of parchment before
and then erased it. I thought I’d try radium on the chance. There may
be nothing in it, but it will do no harm, will it, Miss Haldane?”

“Oh, no,” said Miss Haldane. “I have some of my brother’s radium right
here. I’ll bring it down and we’ll expose the letter to it.”

A moment later she returned, this time with her cousin Mrs. Hartnell.
“Now we will darken the room,” she said, holding out a small lead case
with hinged cover, “and try this wonder worker. But you must not move
from your places. If you get in the way of the rays, you are likely to
be badly burned.”

We were grouped in a semi-circle before a bared table whereon was
placed the open letter in a holder, confronted with the leaden casket.
I was given the place of honor, directly in front, and Miss Haldane
put her chair beside mine. Carefully she opened the hinged door in
the front of the radium holder, stepped to the switch, threw off the
electric light, and came to sit beside me.

We waited in perfect silence, our eyes bent on the blackness before us.
I could hear her regular breathing, I could feel the brush of her skirt
as she leaned forward, and I forgot all else,--the noise of the city
without, the audience within, both disappeared from my consciousness.
There was but a vast rolling ocean of blackness, and she and I, bound
by a swiftly tightening chain, were being dragged closer and closer
together. Old Von Meyren’s pet saying, “Love! Pah! What is it but an
excess of positive electrons in a certain man, urging him towards the
negative electrons in a certain woman?” kept ringing in my ears, the
while I indignantly refuted it. Again and again it persisted, and with
it came the thought that the waves from the radium were the chain
which bound us.

I had forgotten the letter utterly when suddenly I heard a slight
catch in the regular breathing beside me, and a soft warm hand, raised
swiftly, brushed mine for a moment as it was raised. The sharp thrill
shook me into consciousness. I looked before me, and there, glimmering
into light, a single curve came from the darkness, then a straight
line, then appeared a large U. One by one letters filled out, whole
words appeared,--“United States” first, “July” second, and a single
capital “I” next. Word after word appeared. Half lines filled into
sentences. I could hear behind me a quick, almost sobbing breath
that half penetrated my mind, but leaning forward close beside was
Miss Haldane. At last in a clear low voice she began to read, “I,
the man who will stop all war, hereby declare that I will destroy
one battleship of the United States during the first week of July,
19--, one battleship of England during the second week of July, 19--,
one battleship of France during the third week of July, 19--, one
battleship of Germany during the fourth week of July, 19--. I shall
follow that destruction by sinking, in regular order, one battleship of
each of the other great powers. May the Lord have mercy on the souls of
them who suffer for the cause of peace!”

She stopped and we waited, watching the glowing signal for what seemed
hours, for what was minutes. No more appeared, though the brightness
of the words of the second message did not dim. At last Miss Haldane
rose and with a quick movement turned on the lights and shut the cover.
The letter returned to its former appearance. I sat blinking. Regnier
still sat immobile. John held his face in his hands. Mrs. Hartnell sat
with closed eyes.

“Do you believe it?” I asked Miss Haldane quickly.

She nodded gravely. “It’s what he means to do,” she said. “He wrote it
that way first, and then erased it and made it general afterwards.”

“I don’t believe it,” said Mrs. Hartnell, sharply. “It’s impossible.”

“It certainly doesn’t seem probable,” said John, at last raising his
face. Regnier alone did not speak.

For a moment we were silent, each busy with the thoughts the message
had roused within him. At last I rose with an effort. “Good-night, Miss
Haldane,” I said, “I thank you for your help.”

“I am very glad you brought the letter to me,” she said simply, “I am
going back to New York to-morrow so I cannot ask you to call upon me
here, but if you are in New York won’t you come and see me and give me
any news you may have of this threatening peril?”

“I shall be only too glad to do so,” I responded, my heart bounding.
I had reached the door when Miss Haldane called after me. “Oh, Mr.
Orrington, would you be willing to let me have the letter? I should
like to show it to my brother. I’ll send it to you any time you wish.”

“Certainly you may have it,” I replied, and I handed her the parchment.

Regnier left the house with John and me. We walked in silence to the
corner where Regnier turned off. As we parted, he hesitated for a
moment.

“You were strangely right in your surmise, Mr. Orrington,” he said
slowly. “I am very glad to have been present at so curious an event.”

“Queer chap Regnier,” said John musingly, as we watched the retreating
form. “Clever scientist and good fellow, but queer. I hope he’ll never
get Dorothy Haldane. She wouldn’t be happy with him.”

My heart sank like lead. “Do you think there’s much chance that he
will?” I queried anxiously.

“To tell the truth,” answered John slowly, “I don’t know.” We had come
by this time to the door of John’s hotel. “I’m not going to ask you
up to-night, Jim,” he said, “I’m utterly fagged out and exhausted.
Besides, I must get off early in the morning. So good-night and
good-bye both.”

He paused and I could see the muscles of his face twitching and his
hands nervously clasping. He went on with a rush, “Don’t forget me
while I’m gone, old man, will you? Remember our commencement night when
we walked up Riverside, and talked of the great future lying before us?
Of all I cared for then, not one remains except yourself. Of all the
health and vigor I had then, only a shred is left. I shall not see you
for two years anyway. There’s nobody left to write to me. Don’t forget
me. Drop me a line occasionally, care Barings, will you?”

With such an intensity of pleading came the last words that I was
shaken despite myself. “Write you? I guess I will,” I cried. “Don’t you
worry about that.” We grasped hands and parted.




CHAPTER II


“It’s no use, Orrington, there’s nothing in it,” said the managing
editor decisively. “We can’t publish a fairy story like that. We’ve got
to stick to probabilities, at least. What did the Secretary of War say
when you told him?”

“Oh, he said it was simply the insane freak of a crazy man,” I answered
glumly enough, for I had set my whole heart on this scoop, and felt
more and more convinced that it was true, the more I was rebuffed. I
went on with a gleam of hope. “I’d like to have you see radium bring
out the second letter, that was underneath the first.”

“My dear chap,” said the chief, a little impatiently, “I’ll take your
word for that, and you could use that story very well in another way,
but it isn’t news. Whole fleets can’t be sunk by a single man. It’s
nonsense.” He placed his glasses on his nose with a vigorous gesture,
and picked up a fresh bunch of copy.

Without a word, I passed out into the big office where, sitting down
at an empty desk by the window, I lighted my pipe and lost myself in
thought. Not very pleasant thoughts they were, for I had been rebuffed
for my enthusiasm on every side, since I took up the quixotic task of
persuading the United States that one of her battleships was in danger.
My own chief, the Washington correspondent, the War Department, the
President, and now the managing editor of the New York office whither
I had been suddenly called--all laughed at my tale. Dorothy Haldane
alone had believed. Together we had seen the message grow from the
darkness. We were convinced of its truth. From that one meeting had
come the feeling that, when Dorothy agreed, the opinion of the rest of
the world faded to minor account. Over and over again her name threaded
the shuttle of my thoughts. Dorothy was my last thought as I lay down
at night. Dorothy was my first thought with the dawn.

I had an hour to wait before I could reach a man whom I had been told
to interview, and I sat back waiting and dreaming. It was Tuesday
of the fatal week, the first week in July. Suddenly the door of the
chief’s office opened, and I heard my name. “Orrington! Orrington!”
I jumped to my feet and hurried in. The chief was sitting with the
receiver to his ear. “Close that door!” he ordered. “Here’s Orrington
now. Tell him what you told me.”

I took the ’phone at his gesture and listened.

“Orrington?”

“Yes.” (The man on the other end was the head of our Washington office.)

“There may be something in that story of yours. The War Department
has just called me up. The Alaska has disappeared somewhere between
Newport News and Bar Harbor. They talked with her by wireless yesterday
morning, and have been unable to get into communication with her since.
She has two sets of wireless on board, and has not been out of close
communication for three years. They have sent four revenue cutters out
searching the coast, but nothing has been seen. Finally the secretary
thought of you and the message from the man who intended to stop all
war. Have you found out anything?”

“No.”

“Well, take your orders from New York now. They’ve asked for you for
this. I don’t think the other papers have it yet.”

I straightened up with a throb of joy and turned to the chief. He
looked at me keenly. “Better not write anything till you have something
more. The assignment is yours. Go out and find the Alaska or what
happened to her. I give you carte blanche.”

Hardly were the last words out of his mouth before I had jumped for my
hat and was hurrying down the stairs with a generous order for expense
money in my hand. A moment’s stop at the cashier’s, and I was out on
the street. Up and down I looked for cab or automobile. I was bound
for the water front. For once, there was not even a street car going
my way. I started hurriedly on, half running in my speed. As I rushed
along, I heard my name, “Mr. Orrington!” The voice would have called
me miles. It was Dorothy Haldane, seated in a big blue motor. Her
chauffeur drew up beside me, and she threw open the door.

“Let me take you wherever you are going, and tell me if you have heard
more from that letter.”

I needed no second invitation, gave the wharf address to the chauffeur,
and turned to answer Dorothy. As I told her the news, she leaned
forward to the chauffeur.

“Go back to where we left Mr. Haldane’s launch,” she said, and turned
to me. “I’ve just left Tom at his launch, which was to take him out to
the Black Arrow. They were waiting for some provisions at the wharf,
and may be there yet. He’ll be delighted to take you, and the Black
Arrow is one of the swiftest motor yachts in the bay. Will you make
your search on her? If you will, I’ll go with you. I only stayed ashore
to-day to do some shopping that can wait.”

When the gods befriend a man, who is he to say nay? Through the hot and
dirty markets we sped and reached the wharf, just as the Black Arrow’s
launch was leaving the shore. A clear call and a wave of Dorothy’s
parasol brought it back, while a bewildered smile passed over Tom
Haldane’s face as he saw us awaiting him. “Why, Jim!” he began.

“Don’t stop to talk now,” said Dorothy. “Take us to the Black Arrow as
fast as you can.”

In a moment we had cleared the wharves and were passing from the dirt
and smells of the city on to the clear waters of the bay. As we went,
Dorothy explained the situation to Tom, who fell in with the plan
joyously. Once on the slim rakish yacht, he spoke.

“Now, Jim, you’re in command. Where are we going?”

“Right down the coast,” I said, “and we’ll megaphone every fisherman
and yacht. It’s the men on the coasters who will know, if any one does.”

Swift as her name, the Black Arrow ploughed her way through the summer
sea. Pleasantest of all assignments to sit on her deck and watch
Dorothy Haldane as she talked and speculated on the problem before
us. Could one man have sunk so mighty a battleship? Was there any
possibility that a single man could make war on the world? Tom came up
to us in the midst of the discussion, and stood listening.

“Queer this should come up now,” he said. “It was only last winter that
some one was talking about something like this up at our house, one
Sunday night. Who was it, Dorothy?”

A sudden look of alarm flashed across her face. She started to speak
and then broke off. “Oh! I hardly remember.”

Tom persisted. “Let’s see, there was a crowd of the fellows there, and,
queer thing too, John King and Dick Regnier. The same pair that were
with you the other night.”

“Regnier!” That name shot across me like a bullet. The short, quick,
troubled breathing of some one behind me on the night we read the
letter! “Can it be!” I burst forth.

Dorothy made no pretence of misunderstanding me. “No,” she said firmly.
“Dick was up to see me last night. It couldn’t have been he.”

The coast had been rushing by us rapidly as we talked, and now the
summer cottages and bathing beaches were giving way to longer stretches
of bare sand and wooded inlets. I rose and looked forward.

“We may as well commence here,” I said, and we began systematic
inquiry. Catboat and sloop tacking out on pleasure bent, tramp steamer
ploughing heavily up the coast,--one after another, we came alongside
and asked the same questions. “Have you seen a battleship to-day or
yesterday? Have you seen or heard anything unusual?”

The answers came back in every vein. Brusque denials--ironical
inquiries--would-be humorous sallies--courteous rejoinders--one and all
had the same word. No battleship seen. Nothing unusual seen or heard.
The morning had become noon, ere we were fairly on our quest. The
afternoon wore on towards night, as it progressed. As the hours passed,
I protested against my hosts giving up their yacht to my service, but
quite in vain. They were as firmly resolved to pursue the quest to the
end as I was myself.

About five o’clock, when we were some six or seven miles off the coast,
came the first success. We hailed a schooner whose lookout replied
negatively to our questions. As we passed slowly, we heard a sudden
hail, as a gaunt man, the skipper, rushed to the side.

“Lookin’ for anything unusual, be ye?” he shouted. “I’ve seen one
thing,--a catboat takin’ on a crazy man out of a knockabout.”

“Whereabouts?” I shouted.

“’Bout ten miles back, I reckon,” came the answer.

He knew no more than that, and the interchange over, I turned to
Dorothy.

“Shall we run that clue down?” I asked.

She nodded decisively. “By all means,” she said. “It’s the only one we
have. Send the Arrow inshore, will you, Tom, on a long slant?”

Once more the engine took up its racing speed, as the boat bore down on
the shore. As we went in, we changed the questions, and asked the few
boats we met if they had picked up a man. At last we saw a catboat just
sailing out of a little bay, and bore down on it. A man and a boy sat
in the stern. As I shouted my question once more, the man jumped up.

“Yes, we picked one up.”

“Where is he?” I shouted.

“At my house, but he’s crazy,” replied the man.

“Can we get in there with the yacht?”

“No, but I can take you in,” he answered, and it was but a moment’s
work to lower a boat from the davits. As I stepped to the side, Tom and
Dorothy hurried up.

“We’re going, too,” Tom cried.

The launch bore us rapidly across to the catboat, and as we approached,
I studied the faces of the man and the boy. They were simple folk, of
evidently limited intelligence. Hardly had we come alongside, when I
began my questions, and a strange story came in reply. Stripped of its
vernacular and repetitions, this was the tale finally dragged from the
man and boy, as we sailed towards the shore.

They had started out in the early morning and had fished with some
success. In the afternoon, they had seen a knockabout running
free before the wind, with all sorts of strange action. The sail
widespread, she turned and reared, started and checked, swung and
circled. There was no sign of life on board that they could ascertain,
and they made up their minds that the boat had either lost its
occupants or had been driven offshore with its sail hoisted. On
boarding, much to their surprise, they found a man, apparently a
solitary fisherman, lying unconscious in the stern sheets. Throwing
water over him roused him. He sat up and looked around, but with
unseeing eyes. His lips quivered, and in a low whisper he began to
speak. “Disappeared, disappeared, disappeared. Nothing real, nothing
real.” Rising, he started to walk straight ahead, but struck the
side and fell. His murmur now changed to a loud moan. “Disappeared,
disappeared, disappeared. Nothing real, nothing real.” Again he tried
to walk, but this time they caught him, bound him, and carried him to
shore, to their house, where he went quietly enough to bed, with the
unceasing moan. “Disappeared, disappeared, disappeared. Nothing real,
nothing real,” rising and falling like the waves on the shore.

The story had taken all the way in, and as we rowed towards shore,
leaving the catboat and launch at the mooring where the knockabout lay,
the night was swiftly shutting in. A light glimmered in a low house on
the bluff.

“That’s my house,” said the man, as we hastened towards it. A woman
with a kindly face met us at the door.

“Wife, these are some folks that are looking for the crazy man,” said
our friend.

“He’s fast asleep,” was the answer, “but you can go in and see him, if
you want to.”

My heart rose. The second step of my quest was in sight.

“Tom,” I said quietly, “come along with me. Miss Haldane, will you
remain here?”

Dorothy nodded. Tom and I followed the woman as she passed down a
narrow passage. Opening a rude door, she entered. In front of the bed,
she stopped short and threw up her hands. “For the land’s sake,” she
cried. “He’s gone!”

Gone! The word echoed dismally in my brain.

“Wait till I get a lamp,” said the woman, and she pattered nervously
out.

By the fading light, we could see the disordered bed, the open window,
and an overturned chair. A glimmer of light came down the passage,
and the woman hurried back, followed by Dorothy. No more information
could be gleaned. Evidently the lost man had risen, dressed completely,
and left by the low open window. The woman of the house was in great
distress, weeping and rocking. “The poor crazy man, lost in these
woods. He was as harmless as anything. I thought he was all right.”

Dorothy sat down beside her, and, soothing her, began a series of quiet
questions. “How long did you leave him?”

“An hour or more.” She had been doing the supper dishes. Dorothy turned
to the husband.

“What roads are there from here?”

“Only one for a mile. That goes from the front of the house.”

The woman broke in. “If he’d taken that, I’d have seen him. He’d have
gone by my window. He must have gone to the shore or the woods.”

“There’s no use waiting. He’s only getting farther away from us,” cried
Tom. “Let’s look around the house.”

Our fisher friend had two lanterns and a kerosene light. With these, we
began the search. The sand and rock around the house gave no sign of
footprints, and we passed out in widening circles, meeting and calling
without avail. A half hour’s exploration left us just where we started.
We had found nothing. Turning back, we met Dorothy at the door.

“I was afraid you would find nothing,” she said. “I’ve just found
out that he said one thing beside the sentence which he continually
repeated. Once he said, ‘The sea, the sea, the awful sea.’ I believe he
has gone to the shore.”

Together, we went in that direction. Tom and the fisherman took one
way, Dorothy and I the other. As we hastened on, the light of the
lantern threw circles of hazy light on the black water and on the
shore. Dorothy, in the depths of thought, walked on a little in
advance, and, despite myself, my thoughts turned from the man I sought
and the errand for which I sought him, and I gazed wholly at the round
cheek shaded by a flying tress that escaped from the close veil, and at
the erect figure, now stooping to look ahead, now rising and passing
on in deep thought. The same thrill which had held me the first night
came again, that binding call, that tightening chain. I lost myself in
a dreamy exhilaration.

Suddenly, Dorothy stopped. “It’s no use to go farther.”

Obediently I turned, and we retraced our steps. Just below the house,
we met Tom and the fisherman, returned from an equally unavailing
search. We all four stood gazing out to sea where the Black Arrow lay,
her lights the sole gemmed relief of the dark waters, save where her
search-light blazed a widening path of changing silver before her. All
at once I saw Dorothy raise her head with a quick breath.

“If he’s on the shore, I know how we can find him, no matter what start
he has.”




CHAPTER III


We waited anxiously for her next words.

“The search-light of the Arrow will do it. We can run the launch
along the coast twice as fast as a man can walk or run, and play the
search-light of the yacht on the shore as we go.”

Though simplicity itself, it was the only plan that promised success,
and it took but little time to put it into operation. The fisherman
volunteered as pilot, and while Tom went back in the launch to give
instructions to the captain, we waited in the darkness of the little
bay, holding our lights as beacons. The night, without a single star,
but darkly showed the lapping waves and sighing pines which made the
background of our tiny, rocky amphitheatre. Tom had not covered half
the distance to the yacht, when we heard his hail, and the search-light
swung at right angles, limning the launch speeding from the shore in
a lane of light. We watched them till they reached the shadow of the
side. There was a brief interval before we saw the launch returning
down the silvery way, but, as she neared us, to our surprise we saw
Tom was not there. In his stead came the first officer, who touched
his cap, and said, “Mr. Haldane will stay on the yacht and run the
search-light, and has asked me to run the launch.”

It was but the work of a moment to embark, and the boat headed out
of the cove towards the north, the side agreed upon with Tom. Up in
the prow stood the officer at the wheel, the fisherman pilot beside
him. The engineer bent over his small engine in the centre, and in
the stern sat Dorothy and I, peering into the space of light on the
shore, where played the search-light. Bravely the little launch found
her way forward, with the slight chug-chug of her engine the only
sound. I could not rid myself of a feeling of unreality. Constantly
we moved in light, while all else was in shadow. Before us was the
shore, lighted as by a ghostly radiance, on either side was darkness,
such darkness that we could barely distinguish the sky line of bluff
and tree against the sky. We neither spoke nor moved, and the sailors
forward scarce broke by a movement the silence, with its single sound
rising above the monotony of the waves. Dark green of pine and cedar,
lighter green of scrub oak, yellow gray of sand dune, soft brown warmth
of massive boulder, curling white where splashing waves broke on the
glistening pebbles of the shore, ragged stump and lofty maple--all
were etherealized by the silver, shifting light. It was a night of
enchantment, wherein I, taken up by a genie from my dusty tasks, had
been placed beside a fairy queen to behold the wonders of Eastern
magic. Mile after mile rolled by with no result. Once we flashed our
light on a startled fisherman lifting his lobster pots from his boat.
Now and again we cast it on veranda of summer cottage, or on kitchen
steps of farmhouse. Where we found men, we inquired for the object of
our search, but it was all in vain, and at last I looked questioningly
at Dorothy.

“He could not have come so far as this.”

She shook her head. “No,” she said regretfully. “We may as well turn.
But we’ll find him on the other shore. I feel certain he went to the
sea.” She gave a low order to the officer at the wheel. He raised a
lantern thrice, and the search-light paused and reversed its way.

Back over the ground we passed, more swiftly this time than on our way
up. Back to the cove where we started, we went, and from there we took
our course southward along the shore. We had gone perhaps three miles,
when the fisherman turned suddenly. “There’s some one ahead there on
the bluff.”

On swept the search-light, and outlined on a little knoll scarcely
fifty yards from us stood a man, his hands stretched to heaven, and an
expression of awful doubt and agony on his face. His lips moved, and a
moaning cry came from them. Quickly the engineer threw the lever, and
the sound of the engine ceased. Out of the stillness, made yet more
manifest by the stopping of the single accustomed sound, came the moan.
“Disappeared, disappeared, disappeared. Nothing real, nothing real!”
The man paid no attention to the light or to our boat. He looked beyond
us, at the ocean, with an unseeing gaze.

“Hold the search-light there!” I called, in a low tone.

The officer raised his lantern twice, and the search-light stopped with
the man in the centre of its field.

[Illustration: THE OFFICER RAISED HIS LANTERN TWICE. [_Page 30._ ]

“Go on,” I said, and the launch passed slowly on into the darkness. In
hurried tones, I told Dorothy my plans. The fisherman and I would go
ashore at the first point possible, come up from behind, and take him.
It was quickly and easily done. The launch was brought close in shore,
where the fisherman and I could wade in, and, as we stole quietly up
behind the man, we could see that he had not moved. His hands were
still raised on high. His lips still uttered the same moan. To my
surprise, he offered no resistance, and came quietly and peaceably on
board the launch and the yacht, where they put him to bed. Through the
whole he never ceased his plaint. We looked for sign or letter that
might show his identity, but there was nothing. However, we had won the
second step. Next came the question, “Did he know anything of the
Alaska?” That was the last thing we discussed before turning in, but it
was not the last thing in my thoughts as I fell asleep.

I woke up next morning among the familiar sounds of New York harbor,
and came on deck to find Tom and Dorothy already there. Our visitor was
safe. He was still in a heavy sleep.

The newspapers had come on board, and we found that the disappearance
of the battleship was now known, but that there was as yet no news. In
the excitement, the story of the message from the man had been wholly
forgotten. Every newspaper was searching, but none had any clue. The
Navy Department could give no information, though besieged by hundreds
of the relatives and friends of the men on board. There was no clue as
to the identity of the insane man. No paper reported any man as lost. I
thought the matter over as we breakfasted. Finally Tom spoke.

“What’s the next move, Jim?”

“To open the mouth of this man here,” I answered. “I believe that he
knows something; that a sudden shock drove him crazy, and our next move
is to get him sane again.”

“How will you do that?” queried Dorothy.

“I don’t quite know,” I answered hesitatingly. “But I think I had
better try some physician. I want a bright, resourceful specialist.”

“I know just the man,” said Tom. “Forrester; he’s making a name fast.
You know him, Dorothy?”

Dorothy nodded. “I don’t think you can get a better man,” she said, and
so the next move was decided.

Our man awoke with no change from the night before, and with the same
cry ever issuing from his lips. Tom went ashore, ’phoned Dr. Forrester,
and arranged for attendants to remove the unfortunate to a private
hospital. We preceded the carriage which was sent for him, in Tom’s
motor car.

We had waited perhaps five minutes in Dr. Forrester’s office, when
he entered. Clear-cut, with clean shaven mouth and searching eyes,
he seemed the very man to solve our problem, if it could be solved.
Briefly I told him the condition. Here was an unknown man, with
absolutely no clue to his identity, who, we believed, possessed
certain information which we needed, information of the utmost public
importance. Our desire was to bring him back to a normal sanity and to
learn his story. My tale done, Forrester looked questioningly at Tom.

“It’s all right, Doctor, every bit of it,” said Tom decisively. “I’m
right behind this thing, and it’s all perfectly straight. My sister and
I were with Mr. Orrington when he found the man.”

Forrester rose as Tom spoke the last words. “That’s all that is
necessary. I shall be very glad to do what I can. If you’ll excuse me
now, I think that the patient has arrived. If you care to wait, I’ll
make a preliminary examination and let you know something of the result
immediately.”

For half an hour we waited anxiously for the verdict. Could Dr.
Forrester find the missing spring which would roll the curtain from
that brain, and enable it to give forth the information which might
mean so much to me? Finally the door opened and he entered. We sprang
up. He shook his head.

“A most trying and puzzling case. There seems to have been absolutely
no injury to the brain, that can be recognized. None of the ordinary
causes seem to have any share in the causation of this. I can do
nothing for you to-day. I will try every means known to us in
succession, and report to you day by day.”

I felt baffled and seriously puzzled. It was most essential that I
should get the story the moment the man recovered, if he did recover.
It was equally essential that I should be free to hunt for new clues.
Dorothy saw my anxiety.

“What is it, Mr. Orrington?” she questioned.

“Simply wondering how I could be in two places at the same time--here
waiting and on the coast searching,” I answered.

“I can settle that,” said she. “I am going to take a week of observing
in Tom’s research laboratory, and I’ll be right in reach of a telephone
every minute.”

I objected in vain. Dorothy settled matters as she had settled them
before. Tom and I were to go down the coast in the Black Arrow,
returning every night to New York. She was to remain in the city.

I reported my findings to the paper, and still the chief said, “Wait!
Don’t write anything till you have more. Keep at it till you have
something.”

Morning after morning we telephoned the hospital and found no change.
Day after day we spent in the Black Arrow, searching the coast, or in
the motor car, skirting the shores. Evening after evening we spent in
the library at the Haldanes’, in endless discussion and consultation.
The country was daily growing more and more alarmed. Rumors of war, of
foreign fleets coming to attack our shores, filled the papers. Stories
that the Alaska had been sent to the Pacific and had been seen in South
American ports, that she had been seen in European waters, that she
had struck a derelict and, badly disabled, was coming slowly in, were
current. Every story run to earth proved a fake, and every day had a
new story. The Government knew no more than any one else, and had been
driven to a sphinx-like silence in self-defence. They had employed,
as had the newspapers, every known means of getting some news of the
battleship, but all in vain.

The Alaska had disappeared on Monday or Tuesday of the first week
in July. On Tuesday, we had found the man who was still gazing with
unseeing eyes at the bare wall of the hospital room, still moaning the
same cry. In six days he had never varied it but twice, and both those
times he repeated his words in the cottage, “The sea, the awful sea.”

Experiment after experiment had been tried without avail. Two
consultations with the best alienists of the city had given Dr.
Forrester no more light. Six days of searching the coast gave us not
a single clue. On Monday night we reached the wharf about six, to
find Dorothy waiting for us in the automobile. As we rode up town she
rapidly explained the plan for the evening.

“They tried a high frequency current on the patient to-day,” said
Dorothy, “and it seemed to have the first effect. He stopped his
plaint, went off to sleep, and woke silent for the first time. He did
not drop back into his old condition until three hours later. They are
going to try it again, as soon as we get there.”

In one of Dr. Forrester’s offices stood the high frequency apparatus.
Before it sat the man, his eyes staring before him, his lips moving
with his moaning cry. The doctor moved the cup-shaped terminal above
his head, adjusted the negatives, then nodded to the nurse at the
switch. Slowly increasing in sound and speed went the motor. Hissing
low and sibilantly shot the vibrant discharge. Five minutes passed
as we gazed intently on the man in the chair, five more, and yet
five more. His words came slowly, drowsily now. The harsh, clashing
syllables became a low hum. He dropped off into sleep, breathing
regularly, and the nurse threw off the switch.

“That regular sleep is a great gain,” said Forrester. “He’ll probably
wake soon.”

Silently we sat waiting. The clock ticked loudly. I fell at once to my
constant occupation, watching Dorothy. She sat beside Tom, her eager
face bent intently on the man, so intently that it would seem as if
she must obtain the secret from his sleeping form. I had watched her
expressive face for perhaps half an hour, Forrester had been out and
returned, when the man stirred drowsily, put up his hand to his eyes,
rubbed them, yawned and looked up.

“Where--where am I?” he said stumblingly. “Where’s the boat?” he went
on.

Forrester soothed him. “You’re all right,” he said. “You had an
accident, but you’re all right again.”

The man sank back resignedly. “Well--” he began, and then a wave of
remembrance flashed across his face, a look of horror. We bent forward
instinctively, hanging on his words.

“Where’s the ship?” he cried. “What’s happened to the Alaska? I saw
her disappear. For God’s sake tell me I didn’t--” The red flush in his
face grew deeper, his breath grew labored, and the watching physician,
stepping beside his bared arm, brought something concealed in his hand
against it once, twice. “Oh!” said the man shrinking. “What--” and then
without another word he became unconscious.

I jumped up in excitement. “Couldn’t you have,--” I began, but
Forrester stopped me.

“I let him say all that was safe. Wait three hours, and he will
probably be all right.” He smiled somewhat exultantly. “The high
frequency did it. Somehow it seems to rearrange the disordered parts by
the electric flow.”

“Why do you think the high frequency current did the work when all
other methods failed?” asked Tom, as we descended the stairs.

Forrester pulled at his chin with an air of abstraction. “I don’t
really know,” he answered frankly. “The action is almost as if some
electrical matter in the patient had been jarred by an electrical
shock, and when the high frequency got control, it put things back into
shape. Readjusted the parts, as it were. I don’t believe at all that
the shock of seeing the battleship go down did the whole mischief.
There was something else, something decidedly out of the common, mixed
up in the case.”

As we waited, I telephoned the office, and found the chief still there.

“Victory is in sight,” I said. “Save as many columns as you can.”

“You can have all you want,” came back over the wire.

I asked for a desk, and began to write. I sketched the scene in the
War Department, quoted the entire message from the man who was trying
to stop all war, reviewed briefly what was known of the ship and of
her disappearance, and told of our search down the coast, and of the
finding of the man upstairs. Hour after hour went by as I wrote, and no
call came. Dorothy and Tom sat reading. At last I brought my story down
to the point where I wished to introduce the story of the man. There I
stopped, and with idle pen sat and watched the beautiful head below the
shaded light. If a man could only sit and see that “Picture of a woman
reading” every night! I found myself figuring costs of living more
zealously than ever before. A knock broke in on my thoughts.

“The patient has roused,” said the nurse, “and the doctor would like to
have you come.”

Silently we passed through the bare corridors and up the wide stairs.
As we entered, the doctor sat beside the man on the narrow iron
bed. I looked with eager inquiry at the face. It shone with normal
intelligence. We had conquered again.

“I have just been telling Mr. Joslinn of your finding him, and of his
being here,” said Forrester. “Now he is ready to talk.”

Dorothy greeted him and began the talk, while I wrote feverishly as
Joslinn spoke in a low steady tone. Yes, he had gone out fishing.
He had left a little shooting box, whither he had run down alone on
Monday, and taken the knockabout out. The reason no one had known of
his disappearance was that there was no one to care. He had no family
and had retired from business, made little trips now and then, so his
landlady and friends simply thought of him as away. I chafed at the
time that he took in coming to the point. If he only reached it, his
long description of his acts was all a part of the story. Then came the
crisis:

“I was out ten or twelve miles from shore, just about sunset,” said
Joslinn, “when I saw a battleship coming up the coast. She was the only
ship in sight, and she passed within a short distance of me, so near
that I felt the last of her wake. I never saw a finer spectacle than
that boat as she swept on.” He paused.

“Go on, go on,” I said anxiously.

“I knew it was the Alaska,” he resumed, “because I had seen her lying
for weeks below my apartment house in Riverside Drive. I watched her as
she went on triumphant. It was the time of evening colors. Out across
the water came the bugle call, which I had heard so often as I hung
over the parapet of the Drive at nightfall. The marine guard and the
crew stood mustered and facing aft. The flag fell a fluttering inch,
and at the moment of its fall the band crashed into the full strain of
the Star Spangled Banner. I stood with bared head, and my eyes filled
as the great ship bore proudly on. Just as the last note of ‘Oh long
may it wave’ came to me, like a bursting soap bubble, like a light
cloud scattered by the wind, she disappeared without a sound! Not so
much as the splash of a pebble in the water could I hear.”

“Do you mean to say,” cried Tom, in utter amazement, “that all those
thousands of tons of armored steel, those great guns in their huge
turrets, that terrific mass of metal, disappeared without a sound?”

“Absolutely without a sound,” answered Joslinn gravely. “The Alaska
disappeared with less commotion than a ring of tobacco smoke in the
air. It utterly destroyed one’s belief in the reality of anything in
this world!”

Bewilderment, complete bewilderment, is the only word which can express
the appearance of our little group, as we stood in the bare room. Even
Forrester temporarily forgot his professional attitude in the absorbing
interest of the tale. But a sigh from Joslinn recalled him.

“That’s quite enough, Mr. Joslinn,” he said hurriedly, and, at his nod
of dismissal, we turned and went down the stairs.

“Nothing real, with a vengeance,” remarked Tom, as we descended. “I
can’t imagine a more unearthly spectacle than that noiseless fading
away. I’d have said mirage, if he hadn’t heard the music, and if the
ship hadn’t actually disappeared. Hold on--if this is the work of man,
is it possible that he has discovered some new substance which, placed
in armored steel, causes it to disintegrate? If he got hold of such
stuff, he might get it into armored steel, while it was making, and
then after a certain time the whole thing might crumble away.”

Tom had finished speaking as he stood in the door of the doctor’s
pleasant library.

Dorothy nodded as he closed. “That’s not a bad idea, Tom. If anything
could be found that would make steel crumble into dust, as a puff ball
crumbles, it might of course be timed. But the whole thing dazes me. I
want plenty of time to think it over.”

“And I must get to work on my story,” I said, trying to shake myself
back into the world of reality again, and I rushed back to my desk.

Word for word I wrote the story, drew Joslinn’s life history briefly,
ran rapidly through the whole, and as Dorothy entered, “I know how I’ll
end,” I exclaimed. “I’ll prophesy the sinking of a British battleship
this week.”

She clapped her hands. “Good! good!” she cried. “You couldn’t do
better.”

The last words of my story were the prophecy, and I hurried to the
telephone. It was 1 a. m., but the chief himself answered. “I’ll be
there with the whole story in half an hour,” I cried exultantly.

“Did he see her go down?” asked the chief eagerly.

“He did,” I answered, and a long whistle came over the wires.

Through dark streets and light, through the roar of upper Broadway and
the sombre silence of lower Broadway the motor ran, and I tried to
calm my hurrying brain. The excitement which had possessed me every
day of the week was still over me. The awful wonder of Joslinn’s tale
possessed me, until my longed-for beat seemed but a minor accident in
the great happenings of the world. Up the elevator and through the door
at a bound I passed, to the chief’s office. He reached eagerly from
his chair for my copy. Page by page he read silently, as I sat handing
them to him, and passing them from his hands to the boys running back
and forth to the tubes. I could hear the crash of the presses, and I
thought, strangely enough, of Pendennis and Warrington standing in
Fleet Street and talking of the mightiest engine in the world,--the
press. And after all, it was my story that was enlightening the world
through those great presses below. I had solved the mystery that filled
the newspapers from the Atlantic to the Pacific, nay more, that was
discussed in the clubs of London and of Tokio, and my story would go
through them all. I had won. Twice only I stopped in giving the copy to
the chief, once to light my pipe, and once to look up Joslinn. I found
him easily in the directory and in Bradstreet’s. He was evidently a man
of complete reliability.

The last page had gone down the tube, and the chief leaned back and
meditatively took up his pipe.

“That’s the best stuff for some years, Orrington,” he said. “I guess
you’d better take this as a permanent assignment. The prophecy was a
long chance, but I guess we’ll take it. Now go to bed.”

I slept till ten, but once up, I read my story with huge approval in
my early paper, and saw everybody else reading it, as I went down
town. My ears were filled with excited comment, and I examined with
much glee the pained comments or total silence of our contemporaries.
Especially did they condemn my prophecy. Reaching the office, I stopped
on the first floor to get a late edition, among a general stare which
I endeavored to bear modestly. At the elevator door, I paused. “Should
I walk or ride? Walk it is,” I decided. I wanted to stop in the hall
outside the big office to look over my story again. As I sat in the
hall window, I looked down. I could see a multitude before our bulletin
board. None of the other papers had any crowd at all. As I looked, the
throng went wild. A great roar rose, and the mass seethed and swayed as
they gazed at the bulletin below me, but out of my sight. “Something’s
up,” I said to myself, and bolted for the office. The reporters and
editors were all clustered in one corner. As they saw me, a shout went
up.

“Orrington, the British battleship Dreadnought, Number 8, has
disappeared!”




CHAPTER IV


The disappearance of His Britannic Majesty’s battleship Dreadnought
Number 8 sent the world wild. Two great nations had suffered severe
blows, and lay in quivering expectation of the future. The chief of my
paper smiled at me more amicably than ever before, as I entered the
office the third day after the British battleship disappeared utterly
in the channel.

“You’d better run that prophecy of yours about the French battleship
to-day,” he said, “and then keep out of the office. I don’t want you to
be in evidence. We’ve got too good a thing to take any chances. Work as
hard as you want to on the assignment, but don’t appear publicly.”

I nodded acquiescence.

“By the way,” he went on, “just how many people outside our own staff
know of the second letter?”

“Seven,” I answered. “The President, the Secretary of War, the two
Haldanes and their cousin Mrs. Hartnell, Richard Regnier and John King.
The former Secretary of the Navy did know, but he’s dead. They are all
pledged to secrecy, and all have kept the story wholly to themselves.”

“That’s all,” said the chief, and I left.

That night I sent in a prediction that a French battleship would
sink within a week, and then spent the next few days going over the
naval registers of the nations, and in correlating the mass of data
concerning the navies of the world, which had been collected at the
office by my request. I wanted to get all the information concerning
the subject in hand that I could possibly obtain.

Immersed in masses of data, struggling with theory after theory that
arose only to be rejected, I passed the week. Weary from my labors, one
afternoon I left my work to go to the Haldanes to report progress. Tom
and Dorothy were both immersed in a research Tom was carrying on, but
they always had time to discuss the great question.

“I had a letter from Dick Regnier yesterday,” said Dorothy, the first
words over. “He says he is doing some work he has long wanted to do. He
speaks of seeing John King at Cowes. John had his new yacht down there.”

I followed every word intently. “Nothing at all about the loss of the
Alaska or the Dreadnought Number 8?” I asked significantly.

“No,” answered Dorothy.

“When was the letter mailed?” I asked.

“Two days after the British ship went down,” she answered. “But--” She
stopped as Tom came in. I continued the conversation no farther.

As I left, Tom called after me. “I’ve been fooling with some
phosphorescent paint,” he said, “and I’ve run down a few interesting
results. Don’t you want to come up to the laboratory to-morrow morning
about three o’clock? We’re going to run some tests between twelve
midnight, and five in the morning, so as to have the least current and
vibration that the city can give.”

“I’ll be glad to come,” I answered instantly. No chance to be near
Dorothy was ever to be refused.

The last revellers were just passing from the great white way, as I
rode up town in a late surface car, which held, beside myself, only a
few dull and sleepy workers. I was ahead of time and, as I came up near
Riverside Drive, I jumped off the car and walked down towards the Drive
and up by the river. Below me, in the full moonlight, lay an American
fleet. The white sides and lofty turrets of the ships stood sharply
outlined against the other bank. They seemed to personify the might
of the nation resting there in huge impassive stolidity, fearful of
nothing, ready for all. Yet as I remembered Joslinn’s words, “vanished
like a breaking soap bubble,” spoken of the Alaska, I shuddered at the
helplessness of those floating forts, massive as they were. I looked
at my watch in the moonlight. Quarter of three. I turned and made my
way to the gray stone building on the height, which held the research
laboratory.

I found Tom and Dorothy bending over a series of instruments under a
big incandescent light. I watched them for a moment silently, then, as
they rose from their task, I greeted them. Never had Dorothy looked
more charming than in this setting of bare walls and severe tables,
hooded instruments and wires, glass cases and shelves. Most girls whom
I had seen at three o’clock in the morning, as they left a ballroom,
were sorry spectacles, worn and dishevelled. Dorothy, in her trim
working clothes, was as fresh as a summer’s morn. Her first greeting
over, she turned to her work again, adjusting a micrometer levelling
screw.

“What are you doing?” I asked idly.

“Adjusting a reflectoscope to detect the presence of radio-active
waves. Tom is just going to have his assistant test the radium he is
to use to-night, and has half a dozen reflectoscopes here,” and she
waved her hand at the bench before her, where half a dozen similar
instruments were placed.

“They are a good deal like the old electroscopes, only infinitely more
sensitive. You see that gold leaf,” she pointed to two tiny ribbons
of gold that hung limply together, “when a wave from a radio-active
source, such as radium, comes along, those ribbons fly apart. All our
reflectoscopes are discharged now, but they’ll be charged later.”

As we spoke, Tom joined us. “I’ve sent Jones down-stairs for the radium
in the safe, Dorothy,” he said, and we three stood looking silently
at the instruments before us. Through the open windows a fresh breeze
fluttered in, and the soft night gave back but the slightest hum, a
minimum of that sound that never ceases in the quietest hours of the
great city. A church tower rang out--One, Two, Three, Four. Tom glanced
at the chronometer. “Just right,” he said, and looked back. A strange
hush filled the air. Again a terrific force seemed to be pulling me
towards Dorothy, but my eyes never turned from the reflectoscopes.
Suddenly, as I gazed, the golden ribbons sprang to life, parted and
stood stiffly separate.

“Good heavens!” cried Tom. “What did that? They were perfectly
insulated. What did that, Dorothy? It must be Jones bringing the
radium.”

Dorothy’s eyes glowed with excited interest. “I don’t think it was
Jones,” she said eagerly. “I believe I know what it was, but anyway,
let’s go first and see where Jones is. There’s absolutely nothing else
in the laboratory that could have charged them, insulated as they were.”

Down the stairs, flight after flight, four in all, we trooped, and
found Jones in an office on the first floor, seated in a chair before
the safe, and looking disconsolately at its closed door. At Tom’s
voice, he rose.

“Professor, I’ve forgotten the combination again. I was sitting here
trying to bring it to mind.”

“Then you haven’t taken the radium from the safe at all?” shouted Tom,
in wild excitement.

“No,” answered Jones, staring in amazement.

“Then how in blazes did those reflectoscopes get charged?”

Jones showed a sudden interest, “Have they got charged again?”

“Yes, have they been charged before?”

“Twice before, and I meant to speak to you about it, but it slipped my
mind.”

“When did it happen?” Dorothy broke in.

“I’ve got full particulars noted down, up-stairs,” said Jones. “But how
about the combination?”

“Never mind that,” cried Tom. “Let me see your data.”

Rapidly we ascended, the slower Jones following some way behind. In the
laboratory the assistant turned to a littered desk and fumbled among a
mass of papers. I could see that Dorothy was burning with impatience
which I could not understand. Jones fumbled on, picking up paper after
paper, peering at them blindly through his black-rimmed spectacles.
Tom seized my arm and walked me down the room impatiently.

“That man will drive me mad some day,” he exclaimed. “He’s the most
accurate investigator and observer we ever had, but he keeps his desk
in an unspeakable mess. He’s got that data somewhere, and when he
finds it, it will be correct, but he’ll take perhaps an hour to find
it. There, thank the Lord!” he remarked, as we turned back, “Dorothy’s
taking a hand.”

Then came order from chaos, regularity from irregularity. Paper by
paper was read, rejected and placed in its appropriate place, while
Jones looked on, by no means displeased. Scarcely five minutes had
passed, and the desk had assumed an order foreign to its nature. Ten
minutes passed, and Dorothy turned. “It isn’t here, Mr. Jones. Now
think, where did you put it?”

Jones seized the knotty problem, bent his mind to it, struggled with
it, emerged victorious. “I know,” he said. “It’s in the middle of that
black, leather note-book in the third right-hand drawer.”

Before he had finished, the note-book was in Dorothy’s hand, was open,
and a paper fluttered out into her lap. She picked it up and read,
“July 3d, 19--. Reflectoscopes charged without apparent cause at
3.45-30 P. M.; July 11th, 19--. Reflectoscopes charged without apparent
cause between 9.35 and 10.10 P. M.”

“I thought so, I thought so,” said Dorothy, jumping from her chair.
“Tom, it’s as straight as a die. Oh, Jim, it’s a big step.”

Tom looked as bewildered as poor Jones had seemed before the safe, or
as he did now. I was thoroughly puzzled. The only thing that struck me
forcibly was that Dorothy had called me by my first name. That was a
big step surely, but evidently it was not the step she meant. Dorothy
saw our bewilderment, and went on emphatically.

“You are stupid. I’d like to know how far you men would get in this
world without women to find things out for you. What happened on July
3d in the afternoon, and what occurred sometime in the evening, our
time, on July 11th?”

Tom and I stood still, looking at each other in bewilderment. Suddenly
I saw a great light.

“Why, those were the times the Alaska and the Dreadnought Number 8
disappeared!” I shouted, in wildest excitement, “and just now.”

“A French battleship went down,” said Dorothy gravely. “And,--” she
broke her sentence with a brief sob, “the poor wives and children.”

We had turned instinctively to watch the golden ribbons that told of
the sinking of the proud battleship, and of the death of hundreds, and
I bowed my head as when the death angel comes close beside us in his
flight. A moment’s silence, and Tom turned to Jones.

“If you don’t mind, Jones, I wish you would say nothing of this, no
matter what you see or hear. We shall do no more to-night; you may go
home.”

With Jones’ departure, we began another council. Tom drew out his pipe.
“Dorothy, I know Jim and I need to smoke over this, do you mind?” and
at her word we filled our pipes and invoked the help of that great aid
to philosophers, tobacco. Dorothy was at the desk, her brow knotted in
deep thought. Tom and I sat on a side bench against the wall, facing
her. The dawn was coming in through the wide windows, and the city
stirred as we talked.

“Your theory about the disintegrating steel of the battleships was
evidently wrong, Tom,” said Dorothy. “The wave that charged the
reflectoscopes was a wave definitely projected from some definite
place.”

“Yes,” said Tom musingly. “I was wrong. The man who is trying to stop
all war must have some radio-active generator, some means of wave
disturbance greater than anything we have yet attained. As a man starts
a dynamo, and uses the electricity it furnishes to do work, so this man
starts this unknown engine of destruction, and its waves destroy the
ship.”

“But how could he possibly cause a ship to vanish without a sound?” I
asked.

“Of course, I’m not perfectly sure,” answered Dorothy. “But the moment
the reflectoscopes were charged, I thought of a possible theory.
His force, so powerful that it affects our reflectoscopes thousands
of miles away, may be able to resolve the metal which makes up a
battleship into its electrons, which would disappear as intangible gas.”

“What are electrons?” I persisted. “I’ve heard of them, of course, but
I’m not quite sure what they are.”

“They’re the very smallest division of matter, the infinitely small
particles that make up the atom. If a man could find a way to break
matter down to them, it’s entirely possible that they would then go
off as a gas. The waves the man sends out must be terrifically strong,
anyway. One thing I don’t see, though, is how he could break down
organic matter. He could break down everything metallic, perhaps, but
I don’t see how he could break down wood--or human beings,” she ended,
with a shudder.

“Part of that’s easy,” said Tom, with a long whiff at his pipe.
“Absolutely no wood for the last two years on any battleship. All
nations have taken out what wood they had on their new ships and put
in metal of some sort. I don’t know about the action on man; it’s not
essential to settle that now.”

The excitement of the moment had been so great, standing in the midst
of history making had been so poignant, that for the nonce my newspaper
instinct had been lost in the stronger thrill. Now it suddenly awoke.

“Great Scott!” I cried. “I must get this to the paper instantly.
Where’s the telephone?”

Without a word, Tom pointed to the desk ’phone on his own desk, and I
rushed over to it. Again and again I rang, with no response. “I can’t
get Central,” I said.

Tom looked at the clock. “It’s a branch exchange, but there’s usually
some one on our exchange board by now. I’ll try.”

Five more precious minutes were lost in his attempt to gain the board.
At last he looked up. “No use, Jim.”

I waited for no more, but grabbed my hat and ran down the long flights.
Out across the square I sped and down the street. A blue bell showed
on the corner in a small store. I ran to it--locked. Another block,
and I had the same experience. At the third, a corner drug store, I
met success. A yawning boy, sweeping out the store, gazed with open
mouth as, hot and perspiring from my run, I hurried in and rushed to
the booth. In a moment I had the office and the night editor’s desk,
had told him who I was, and began to dictate. “At one minute past four
by our time (see what time Paris time is for that, and put it in) a
French battleship was sunk by the man who is to stop all war. Probably
no one on board escaped.” That last was a guess based on the experience
of the past. The night editor’s voice came back.

“Feel sure of this, Orrington?”

“Very sure,” I said.

“I hate to run a thing like this on a chance.”

“The chief said to run anything I sent, didn’t he?”

“Yes,” said the night editor.

“Well, rush it in then, before word comes.”

“All right, if you insist,” came back, and I hung up the ’phone, paid
my fee, and departed.

I slept like a log until eleven, then rose to gather in the file of
morning papers outside my door. My statement was in big headlines in my
own paper. No other morning paper had a single word of it. I paused at
the news-stand, as I went down to breakfast. Staring from every paper
was the headline, “La Patrie Number 3 disappeared. French battleship
follows the Alaska and the Dreadnought Number 8.”

They had the news from France five hours after we had published it.
Leisurely I ate my breakfast, the while I read the late news of my
rivals, turning with especial interest to an editorial of my own paper,
commenting on my work and reviewing the situation. “This should mean
another big jump in circulation,” I thought to myself, “and another
jump in salary, too.” My salary was really getting up to a point where
marriage was the only sensible thing for a man to do. I was to meet
the Haldanes at three. I wondered how long an acquaintance should last
before one could propose.

As I sipped my last cup of coffee, I saw two men in the dining-room
door speaking to a waiter, who nodded, and led them my way. They were
not the type of men who usually breakfasted in the restaurant. Just
before me they stopped.

“Mr. Orrington?” said one inquiringly.

“I am James Orrington,” I answered. The waiter had gone back to the
kitchen. We were left alone in the rear of the dining-room. The man who
had spoken opened his coat and showed a silver shield.

“We are secret service officials. You are under arrest.”




CHAPTER V


“This is an outrage,” I exclaimed indignantly. “Why should I be put
under arrest?”

“On complaint of the French government as being concerned in the
sinking of the French battleship La Patrie Number 3 off Brest this
morning,” replied the officer coolly. “As it is an international
complaint, it came under the Federal courts, and we were empowered to
make the arrest.”

As he spoke, the whole thing flashed across me. My predictions of the
destruction of the Dreadnought Number 8 and of La Patrie Number 3 had
come true. I had told of the sinking at the very moment it occurred. My
story had been spread over the world by cable and by wireless, and my
arrest as an accomplice in the act was the result. I immediately felt
more cheerful.

“The charge is too absurd to stand for a moment,” I said. “I am
entirely ready to go with you.”

Back up-stairs with my two companions I went for my hat, and then I
accompanied them to the Federal building. The inquiry was sharp and
searching. I admitted unhesitatingly that I had written the original
account of the sinking of the Alaska and had prophesied the loss of
the Dreadnought Number 8 and of La Patrie Number 3, also that I had
given information of the sinking of the ship an hour or two before it
had been known in France. On being questioned as to the source of my
knowledge, I gave the account already published of the discovery of
the man who saw the Alaska disappear, and spoke of the original letter
sent by the man who intended to stop all war. Of the two essential
factors, the discovery of the hidden letter and the charging of the
reflectoscopes, I did not speak. These were valuable assets to me, as
long as they were not made public. I could not throw them away. They
meant higher salary, greater reputation, and these things meant a
third, far more essential than either.

My story done, the judge sat for some moments without moving. Finally
he spoke. “Frankly, Mr. Orrington, I cannot see that you have explained
that inside information which enabled you to make your predictions, or
tell of the loss of the La Patrie Number 3. You are the only person
who seems to know anything of this. You offer no explanation of your
knowledge. I do not see that I can do otherwise than commit you without
bail.”

Commit me without bail, keep me from following out my assignment,
keep me from seeing Dorothy! I thought rapidly. Of course there was a
solution. I addressed the judge.

“Your honor, I gave this information in advance to the President and
to the Secretary of War. If you will get either one of them on the
telephone, they will corroborate my words.”

The judge’s attitude changed. “If that proves correct, I shall have no
reason to detain you,” he said, and, turning to a court officer, he
ordered him to call up Washington, state the case to the President’s
private secretary, and ask the President for a statement.

“If you cannot get the President, get the Secretary of War,” I broke
in, and the judge said, “Very well.”

I did not want to bring the office into this at all if I could help it.
I was out playing a lone hand, with the whole responsibility resting
on me, and I did not wish to ask for aid if I could possibly avoid it.
I thought of the Haldanes, but decided to save them for a last resort.
I could not bear to think of Dorothy in the courtroom. For a long half
hour I waited, reading the morning papers, till the return of the
messenger. He entered and walked before the bench.

“Your honor, the President has gone shooting in Virginia. He will
not return for three days, and can only be seen on urgent official
business. The Secretary of War is dangerously ill and cannot be
disturbed.”

I remembered with a shock that I had seen the second fact in the
newspapers. Of the first I had no knowledge. As he heard the news,
the judge again shook his head. “I cannot release you on that mere
statement, Mr. Orrington. Is there anything else you would like to have
done?”

I gave way with an inward sigh. “Yes, telephone, if you will, to
Professor Thomas Haldane at his laboratory, saying that I am under
arrest here, and ask him to come and bring a lawyer.”

Another weary period of waiting in the stifling heat passed before the
door opened and Tom entered, accompanied by another man.

“Hello, old man. This is a shame,” ejaculated Tom, as he came towards
me. As his lawyer went up to the bench for an interview with the judge,
he went on in a lower tone. “It is a shame, Jim, but I expected it.”

“What?” I said in amazement.

“I expected it,” repeated Tom. “It was the only logical outcome of your
prophecies. You had too much inside information. People couldn’t help
suspecting you knew more than you had told. You were the only person on
whom they could lay their hands. It’s really not surprising at all that
you are here. The only thing is, we’ve got to get you out of this right
off.”

He turned to the lawyer. “Can’t you get the judge to take my word
that I know all the circumstances, and can swear to Mr. Orrington’s
innocence?”

The lawyer went up to the bench and had a brief conversation with
the judge. In a few moments he returned. “I hope I’ve solved the
difficulty,” said he. “The judge will accept your statement and Mr.
Orrington’s together. If you will explain the whole thing to him, he
will see that it goes to no one save the Attorney General.”

“You’d better do it,” said Tom briefly.

“I suppose I’ll have to,” I replied. We adjourned to the judge’s
private office and told the whole story.

“I can understand,” said the judge, as I finished, “that the story of
the disappearance of the French battleship might be a lucky guess, once
given the letter of which you speak, but the narrative as told by you
seems almost too incredible to be admitted as evidence. Is this letter
containing the second message still in your possession?”

“No,” I said, and hesitated.

Tom broke in. “It’s in my sister’s hands, judge. She has had it ever
since that first night. If you will wait I will get some radium from my
laboratory and show the hidden message to you.”

“It could not, then, disappear in the time which has elapsed?” queried
the judge.

“No,” answered Tom, decisively. “I have been experimenting with inks of
that kind since I knew of this, and I should say unhesitatingly that it
would still be there, although I’ve never happened to see it myself.
I’ll bring the things back at once. My motor is at the door.”

By that time I had exhausted the news possibilities of the newspapers
and was left to the real estate columns. “Which was better for a young
couple, a small apartment in the city or a suburban home?” That was
a question which made even the flamboyant advertisements of farthest
Suburbia a matter of deep and abiding interest to me. I was half
through the columns when, to my joy and surprise, the door opened,
and Dorothy entered, followed by Tom and the lawyer. At her coming,
the nodding court officer roused and became a model of soldierly
deportment, the secret service men straightened in their chairs, the
judge felt of his tie and rose hastily to offer a seat beside him with
a courtly bow. Gracious and stately, Dorothy bowed to him, but she came
to me.

“Oh, Jim,” she said, in a low voice, “what a shame. I am so glad I was
here to help.”

I passed the gap from Miss Haldane to Dorothy at a bound. “Dorothy,” I
answered, “I’m so glad you were.”

After that how little mattered the long weary afternoon. It took
but a few minutes to arrange a closet off the judge’s room for the
exhibition of the evidence. As Dorothy brought forth the letter which
had been the forerunner of three mighty tragedies, the judge asked to
see it, and read it curiously.

“And there is a second letter below this, Miss Haldane?” he queried.

“Yes,” answered Dorothy, “I have seen it.”

“Have you had this in your possession ever since the night’s meeting of
which your brother and Mr. Orrington spoke?” he asked again.

“It has been in my personal possession, or in a locked drawer of my
own, in a locked safe in my own house,” replied Dorothy. “I asked Mr.
Orrington for it, as I intended to make some tests with my brother on
the ink. We have, however, not used it as yet.”

“You are ready to swear that this is the original letter?”

“I am,” said Dorothy calmly.

“Very well, then, let us go on with the test.”

The letter was placed open as before, with the radium in its leaden
case before it. Tom threw back the cover, as we sat in front of the
table, and turned off the lights. I waited as before, beside Dorothy.
If I had felt a tightening bond before, I felt one a thousand times
stronger now. I had seen the dear girl beside me day in and day out
since our first meeting, and never had she failed to show the same
fire of brilliant imagination, the same power of achievement. She had
blazed my path to success in the weeks past. She had come to help me in
my distress to-day. To gain her had become the whole end of my life. I
looked into the darkness towards the letter, expecting each moment to
see the curves and lines springing out luminous. Minute after minute
passed. I could hear the ticking of the great clock, two rooms away,
and the stifled roar of the summer afternoon in the great city, but the
darkness held no light. No line appeared. Finally Tom spoke.

“How long an exposure did you give it last time, Dorothy?”

“Two or three minutes,” said she. He rose, turned on the lights and
looked at his watch.

“Twelve minutes and no results. It’s the same lot of radium, too. Look
this over with me, will you, Dorothy?”

They examined the apparatus carefully, turned off the light and tried
again. No result. Tom went back into the other room and brought another
sample of radium and used that. Still no result. At last he turned on
the lights and spoke. “I can’t understand, judge, but I cannot bring
out the second letter.”

The judge rose blinking. “According to your own statements,” he said,
“the letter has not been out of Miss Haldane’s possession at all, and
the message once on there could not disappear. I fear I shall have to
hold Mr. Orrington after all, till we can hear from the President.”

My heart sank. Tom turned to me.

“Never you mind, Jim, we’ll find the President for you, and have you
out inside two days.”

I smiled somewhat wearily. “You mustn’t leave your work to do that,
Tom.”

Dorothy broke in. “We can’t work alone. It needs all three of us to get
anywhere, doesn’t it, Tom?”

“Sure thing,” said Tom sturdily, and they left me, but not before
Dorothy had given me a word of comfort that was a stay in time of
trouble.

I had often watched the gloomy walls of the prison as I passed, and
wondered at the sensations of the prisoners when the gates closed
behind them. My sensations as I drove into the courtyard and passed
up the stairs, into the cell whose iron gate clanged shut behind me,
were all poignant enough, but I could not be wholly downhearted.
The whole thing seemed utterly absurd, yet as night came on, a deep
gloom gradually settled over me. I could not see my way out. “Suppose
the President and Secretary of War should both die, as had the last
Secretary of the Navy!” I had no proof but the letter and the witnesses
who saw the second message shine forth, and with that thought of
witnesses came back the puzzling question, “Why did not the second
message appear?” It had been there. I had seen it with my own eyes.
Dorothy, Mrs. Hartnell, John King, Regnier,--each and all had seen
it and read it. Tom had declared it impossible for the writing to
disappear. What could be the explanation? One thought kept coming,
returning to my mind again and again, as I sat on the edge of my narrow
cot, watching the barred moonlight streaming through the great window
opposite my tier. The letter must have been changed. The letter which
we examined in the judge’s room could not be the same as that which had
shown us the second message. Somewhere, somehow, an exchange must have
been effected. It could have been no easy matter, either. Parchment of
the kind used in all the letters was no easy thing to come by. It could
by no means be bought in every stationer’s store, nor could so complete
a copy of the message be produced without much trouble and labor. Only
one man would be likely to have such a copy ready at hand, without the
second message, the man who was trying to stop all war. He might have
an extra copy. But how could he know the letter was in Dorothy’s hands?
How could he get a chance to change the papers? Hour after hour, the
long night through, I struggled with the question, and with the morning
some crystallization came from the dull haze of my thoughts. There
was one time and place where a man might easily make an exchange. At
Mrs. Hartnell’s house in Washington, in the time which elapsed between
the closing of the radium case and the turning on of the lights. It
might be improbable, but it was the only solution I could find. Towards
early morning I dropped off into a troubled sleep, and dreamed I was
in court, where Regnier, as judge, was trying me, with John King as
prosecuting attorney. I had just been condemned to disappear as had the
Alaska, when Dorothy sailed through the courtroom in the Black Arrow’s
launch, with Tom at the wheel. She reached out her hand to me. I leaped
in and escaped.

The late morning brought me a weary and exhausted waking. I had
breakfast brought in from outside, sent word to the office that I would
not be in for a few days, a by no means uncommon thing for me to do
since I went on this assignment, and then I settled down to wait. I got
enough waiting before eight o’clock that evening to last me the rest of
my natural life, but at that hour came a warder with a short request to
follow him to the office. There was Tom, good fellow, rushing towards
me as I entered.

“You’re a free man, Jim; I have the order for your release,” he cried.
“The President came to your rescue, like the trump he is. Hurry up now,
and come to our house for a late dinner.”

The clang of the gates behind me was as much music to my ears as it had
been discord on my entrance. I had endured all the prison life that I
wanted. I was willing to leave any writing up of such experiences to
the yellow newspaper reporter.

Fifth Avenue never seemed so gay. New York never seemed so full of
the wine of life as on that drive. It needed only Dorothy to make
it complete, and I was speeding towards her as rapidly as the speed
regulations would allow. As we went on, Tom told me the story of his
search for the President. How he had found him off shooting in Virginia
and how gladly he had given the word for my release.

Once in the hall of the Haldanes’ house, Dorothy appeared at the head
of the stairs. “Oh, Jim!” she cried. Thank Heaven she had forgotten all
about Mr. Orrington now. “Oh, Jim, I’m so glad. It’s all right now,
isn’t it?”

“It is,” I said emphatically.

She hurried down, waving a blue foreign-looking sheet. “Oh, boys, I’ve
got the best thing yet. We can tell just where ‘the man’ is now. I’ve
just found out the way.”




CHAPTER VI


“What’s the new find, Dorothy?” asked Tom, smiling at her eagerness.

“A letter from Carl Denckel,” she replied.

“Impossible!” cried Tom. “The dear old boy died nine months ago.”

“But this was written nearly a year ago,” she rejoined. “Look at this
envelope.”

The big blue square inscribed in crabbed German script was filled with
addresses. “See,” said Dorothy. “He thought you were still at Columbia,
so he addressed it to Columbia, America, forgetting New York. His ‘u’
was so much like an ‘o’ that they sent it to Colombia, South America.
It travelled half over South America, and then they sent it up here.
It went to three or four Columbias and Columbus’s in different States.
Finally some bright man sent it to the University, and they sent it
over to you. It’s for you all right.”

“Read it, Dorothy. What does he say?”

“An Herrn Doktor Thomas Haldane.

“Lieber Professor:--Es geht mir an den tod--” She had gone thus far in
the German, when she glanced up and saw my uncomprehending face. “The
German too much for you?” she asked. “I’ll translate.” She went on
rapidly in English.

  “To Doctor Thomas Haldane.

  “Dear Professor:

  “I am about to die. My physician tells me that I have less than
  a month left to work. I have just completed the apparatus which
  had engaged my attention exclusively for the last six years,--my
  wave-measuring machine. By means of this machine, any wave of a given
  intensity may be registered as regards its velocity and power.”

“If you don’t mind, I’d like to break in right there,” I interrupted.

“Go on,” said Tom.

“What kind of waves is he talking about? Is this some sort of a machine
for measuring the tides down on the beach, or what is it?”

Tom laughed. “Not exactly,” he said. “Denckel’s machine is to measure
waves like those of electrical energy. You know, don’t you, that we
believe wireless messages go from one station to another by means of
ether waves, as they call them?”

I nodded.

“Well, Denckel means to measure waves of that kind, and waves that
would come from an arc lamp or a dynamo or a piece of radium or
anything like that. It’s to measure the same sort of wave that charged
the reflectoscopes, in short--See?”

“I do,” I answered. “But--”

“Hold on till we finish the letter, Jim, and we’ll go over it.” I
subsided and Dorothy went on.

  “More than that, the distance from the point of generation of
  the wave, and the exact direction from which it comes, can be
  ascertained. It is, as you may see, the unique discovery of the past
  five years. In computing and making it, I have used some discoveries
  made by my late colleague, Professor Mingern. At his death, six years
  ago, he passed his work on to me. Now that my death approaches, I
  pass my work on to you. I have had many pupils in my long life, but
  none so worthy, none so able to carry on the work, as you, my dear
  friend and pupil. Farewell.

    “CARL DENCKEL.”

“He was as fine an old chap as ever I knew,” said Tom, with deep
feeling. “To think of his sending that to me. But what can have
happened to it?”

Dorothy stood with a second sheet in her hand. “Here’s something about
it,” she said. “Manuscripts sent under cover to same address, apparatus
sent to New York via Hamburg-American line.”

“Then the first thing to do is to find the apparatus,” said Tom. “We
can send a trailer after the manuscript, but we can’t bank on getting
it. I’ll go down to the custom-house to-morrow morning. What a blow
to science, if the whole thing were lost.” “But,” he went on suddenly,
“isn’t it extraordinary that this should come along just now? It helps
us a whole lot.”

“That is so,” remarked Dorothy reflectively. “We ought to be able to
tell just where ‘the man’ is every time.”

“Once more I humbly confess my ignorance,” I remarked, “but will you
kindly enlighten me as to the way in which this is to help us in the
search for the man?”

“Certainly,” said Dorothy smiling. “We know that the reflectoscopes
were charged by a wave which ‘the man’ sent out from some definite
spot. Theoretically, that place might be anywhere in the world.
Practically, it’s probably somewhere not many miles from the ship he
is destroying. But it is somewhere. His waves start from some definite
point. There is some single point of generation. Now, with this
machine, I ought to be able to find out just where the place is from
which the wave starts, and not only within a hundred miles, but within
a very brief space. Say, for instance, we had the machine in London, I
could tell that ‘the man’ started his waves from Sandy Hook, and not
from Hell Gate. That power of fixing the exact position of ‘the man’
gives us a tremendous step.”

“Absolutely tremendous,” I cried, and Tom chimed in, his eyes blazing
with enthusiasm. “Here’s to the successful working out of the new clue.”

The announcement of dinner made rather an anti-climax to our discovery.

Tom laughed--“Well, we’ve got to eat, anyway. Come on.”

No feast could equal a dinner with Dorothy as hostess. Never did her
sweet face look more charming than when she presided at her own board.
The talk soon became confined to technicalities, as Dorothy and Tom
discussed the possibilities of the new apparatus, and I sat watching
Dorothy’s expressive face, as she talked of velocities and lengths,
methods of generation and of control. But her absorption in her subject
lasted but a brief time. Dinner over she turned to the piano. Then for
two hours her music wafted me through many a lofty old Iberian turret.

As I walked to my rooms from the Haldanes’, I revelled in every breath
of the city air. The very noises of the street exhilarated me, as
I strolled along, one of the crowd, and a free man. The unexpected
setback of my arrest now safely over, I could attack the new clue
with eagerness, and the early morning found all three of us at the
Hamburg-American pier. No trace of any such invoice as Carl Denckel had
described was to be found in any of the office records. Book after
book was searched for some account of the shipment, but in vain. As a
last resort, we went out to the huge warehouses and searched them, up
and down, back and forth. The morning passed in unavailing work. We
swung up town to lunch, and then turned again to our task. The most
unruly of warehouse men turned into an obedient slave at Dorothy’s
behest, and from one long bare shed to another we passed, escorted by a
retinue of willing workers. We paused at length at the end of the pier,
where the big doors looked out on the water, glowing beneath the sun.
The burly Irishman who had been our escort from the first took off his
cap and wiped his wet brow.

“I’m feared it’s no use, mum,” he said apologetically. “Shure and I’d
go on fer hours huntin’ fer you, if ’twas anny use, but it’s niver a
bit. We’ve been iverywhere that a machine loike thot could be.”

With regret we gave up our futile search and retraced our steps
towards the waiting car. We had seated ourselves and were watching
the chauffeur, as he bent to crank the machine, when we heard a cry
behind us. We turned and saw our guide running at full speed, his arms
waving wildly. As he came near he shouted, “There’s just wan chance. I
remembered meself that a while ago, there was a lot of old unclaimed
and seized stuff sint to the appraiser’s stores to be auctioned off.
They’ve been havin’ the sale the day and to-morrer at three. You might
find it there.”

“We’ll try,” said Tom, and we quickly ran across to the auction. As
we stepped inside the room, we saw a motley assembly before us,--junk
dealers, Jew peddlers, old clothes men, clerks, buyers of hardware
houses, and a few reporters. A lot of fancy door bolts were being sold,
and competition was running high. Foremost among the bidders was a
woman who was evidently an old acquaintance of the auctioneer’s. She
was a queer compromise between the old and the new. On the tight brown
wig of the conservative old Jewish matron was set askew a gay lacy hat,
such as adorns the head of an East Side belle on a Tammany picnic.
Her costume was in harmony with her head gear, consisting of a black
skirt, and a flaming red waist trimmed with gorgeous gold embroidery.
Her keen eyes twinkled at the badinage of the auctioneer, and her face
showed an acumen hard to overcome. One by one the bidders withdrew,
till only this woman and another Jew, an old man, were left. The price
was mounting by cents, till the last limit of the woman’s purse seemed
reached, and she stopped bidding. In vain the auctioneer tried to rouse
her to another bid. “Twenty-six, twenty-six. Absolutely thrown away at
twenty-six. Come, Mrs. Rosnosky, give me thirty. You can sell the lot
for fifty. It’s the chance of your life.” Mrs. Rosnosky was not to be
moved.

Again the auctioneer appealed in vain and, glancing around him, he
reached down beside him and brought up a dusty broken mixture of wires
and metals, of cones and cylinders. “Here, Mrs. Rosnosky! Make it
thirty, and I’ll throw this in.”

As the eyes of my companions lighted on the mass, they started forward.
Tom opened his mouth to bid, but, before the words could come from his
lips, Mrs. Rosnosky had nodded decisively. Her competitor behind her
had shaken his head, and the cry of “Sold to Mrs. Rosnosky at thirty”
came through the air. Tom looked at Dorothy expressively, and she
nodded back and whispered. “It looks as if it might be the machine.
We’ll get it from her.”

Clearly Mrs. Rosnosky had obtained all she desired. Motioning to a
boy in the rear, she stepped to the clerk’s desk, paid her money,
and started to remove her goods by the aid of her helper, paying
no attention to the cries and movement about her. We followed the
machine as it left the building, and stood on the opposite side of the
street, as the boy and the woman filled an old express cart with their
purchases.

Last of all they put in the medley of apparatus on its wooden stand.
As they placed it on the wagon, I lounged across the street. “Want to
sell that?” I asked, pointing to the apparatus.

“Not for anything you want to pay, young man,” came back the answer, to
my surprise.

“I’ll give you five dollars for it,” I said.

Mrs. Rosnosky vouchsafed no reply to my offer, and mounted the seat.

Tom, who had heard the conversation, came hurrying across. “What do you
want for it?” he asked.

“Five thousand dollars,” replied Mrs. Rosnosky, clucking to her horse.
Tom seized the bridle.

“Nonsense, woman. You got that for nothing, and you ask five thousand
dollars. We’re willing to give you a fair price, but that’s robbery.”

Mrs. Rosnosky looked at us keenly. “If you really want to talk
business,” she said, “say so. That’s worth five thousand dollars.” She
seized a cylinder, with a sudden gesture, ripping it from its place.
She pointed to a band of silvery metal round it. “That’s platinum,” she
said. “There’s five thousand dollars in that stuff for me. If you want
it, you take it now or not at all. I know what platinum is worth.”

Dorothy, who had crossed the street and stood beside us, broke in.
“Take it, Tom,” and Tom obeyed, with a nod.

He turned to the woman. “I haven’t five thousand or five hundred
dollars with me, but if you’ll come up town, I’ll get five thousand for
you.”

Mrs. Rosnosky would not part with the apparatus. Tom would not let it
out of his sight. Either Tom had to mount the express wagon, or Mrs.
Rosnosky had to come in the motor car. The latter was her choice, and
Mrs. Rosnosky had the joy of sitting enthroned in a big blue motor,
while we sped up town. The bank had long since been closed, and for
swiftness and surety we decided to run up to Tom’s club. There he was
able to cash a check. Mrs. Rosnosky bore the gaze of the few men who
lingered around the big club windows with a perfect and patronizing
equanimity, and, her money in hand, finally descended from the car and
returned to her East Side abode, a richer woman.

Tom heaved a sigh of relief as we started off again. “Thank heaven that
red and gold nightmare with the wig is gone. She was a clever one,
though. Who’d have thought of her recognizing platinum at a glance. I
didn’t, I confess, under all that dust. Poor old Denckel, his heart
would break if he could see the machine now.”

“Never mind, Tom,” said Dorothy, as he gazed ruefully at the wreck
before him. “I think we can get that together again. But how I wish we
had the data in the manuscript!”




CHAPTER VII


The wreck of the wave-measuring machine once installed in the
laboratory, every energy was bent towards putting it into perfect
working condition. A maddening task it was. Thrown hither and thither
in the corners of warehouses, the missing parts and waving broken wires
of the apparatus, as it first stood on the laboratory table, gave but
little promise of final renovation. But the possibilities which it
held entranced both Dorothy and Tom. Each day I came up to find them
working. Each night they came back to the laboratory for a few more
hours’ work. The minds of all of us were turning more and more to our
one fixed purpose, the discovery of the man who was trying to stop all
war. The stir and tremor of the tumultuous world around, eager for news
of the dread tragedies, seemed to be but an outside interest, compared
with the tremendous possibilities of running down the individual at the
bottom of this gigantic undertaking.

Gradually the chaos began to take on form. Cylinders of shining metal
rose above the polish of the base. Revolving hemispheres and cones
resumed their original forms or were replaced by reproductions. Broken
wires, replaced by new wire, found their connections. Jones was
indefatigable. He was forever polishing, adjusting, scraping, and his
mild blue eyes behind his big spectacles glowed with enthusiasm, as
he sat gazing at the wave-measuring machine and working on one of its
parts.

On the evening of the fourth day I came up to the laboratory about ten
o’clock, and found Tom making some last adjustments, while Dorothy and
Jones looked on.

“We think we have it,” said Dorothy, as she greeted me. “This is the
last connection.”

“Now that you have it all set up, tell me how it works,” I said.
“You’ve been so tied up in the thing, that I’ve hardly heard a word
from you in a week.”

“Too bad,” answered Dorothy, laughing. “We’ll tell you enough about it
to show you what to expect.”

I leaned over curiously to examine the wave-measuring machine. It stood
on a round table ten or twelve feet in diameter looking not unlike
some fortressed town, such as rises on the banks of many a river in
southern Europe. A belt of broad, shining metal a foot high encircled
it as the gray walls of stone surround the town. Within the belt stood
polished cones and hemispheres, which rose for a height of some two
feet, bringing to mind round towers of fortalice and dwelling within
battlemented walls. Wires, ranged with mathematical preciseness,
completed the comparison by their similarity to streets surmounted
by telegraph wires. The surrounding belt seemed solid, but, as Jones
threw the reflector of a powerful incandescent on it, I could see it
was lined with millions of tiny seams. Tom threw a switch and, to my
surprise, the belt began slowly to revolve about the central portion.

“What’s that belt for?” I asked.

“That’s where the wave of electrical energy enters. It goes into the
interior of the machine through one of those tiny slits which you see.
Once inside, the wave strikes a magnetic coil about a mirror, which
swings when the energy acts upon it, and throws a beam of light down
that scale.” He pointed to the opposite wall.

There, extending from one side to the other of the room, some fifty
feet in all, stretched a scale like a foot rule suddenly grown
gigantic. Its space was covered with divisions, a big zero in the
middle and numbers running up from zero into the hundreds of thousands
and millions on either side. Just at the zero point rested a long
narrow beam of light.

“You see that beam,” Tom went on. “When the waves come into the
machine, they go through as I explained, the machine stops, and the
light goes up or down the scale. The distance that it goes shows how
far away the wave started. The slit through which the wave comes shows
the exact direction from which it comes, and we can get that easily
because the machine stops as the wave goes through. Then, by means
of a certain amount of mathematics, we hope to be able to find just
where a wave comes from. We can adjust the machine so that it will
register anything from a wireless telegraph message through a radium
discharge to the enormously powerful waves which ‘the man’ uses. We
have it adjusted now for the waves which ‘the man’ uses in destroying
battleships. We know something of them from the way in which they
charged the reflectoscopes. That’s the whole thing.”

“One thing more,” I said inquiringly. “If ‘the man’ destroys a
battleship, does the machine stop and the beam of light run down the
scale.”

“Yes,” answered Tom. “That’s just what it does.”

“All right,” I said.

“Now, we’ll start up,” remarked Tom. “Turn off the lights, throw off
the inner insulation,” he commanded, turning to Jones, who obediently
threw a couple of switches.

We were left in partial darkness. On the long scale, on the opposite
side of the room, the single line of light rested at the centre,
illuminating the zero. There was a shaded incandescent in one corner,
which threw no light on the black wall where stood the scale, but gave
a dim radiance sufficient to reveal the belt of polished metal as it
swiftly revolved about the mass within. Dorothy sat near the apparatus.
Jones was puttering with something at one end of the scale, and Tom and
I sat side by side, watching the whole scale. Suddenly the beam swept
swiftly far up the scale, fluttered for a moment and rested on a point.
The moving belt stopped with a slight click.

“That’s it. There’s another battleship gone,” cried Tom, as we all
hurried over to the scale. “Now we can tell just where he is doing his
deadly work. 2, 340, 624. 1401” he read, scrutinizing with a microscope
the scale at the point where the beam rested. “Here, Jones, turn on
the lights. Bring me the logarithm tables, our table of constants, and
Denckel’s table of constants that we found under the middle cylinder.”

Jones ran excitedly across the laboratory, returning with the needed
things. Tom, Dorothy and Jones each sat down to figure while I watched
Dorothy’s nimble fingers, as they flew over the paper, filling sheet
after sheet with computations. What different powers lay in those
little hands. Abstruse calculations vied with bread making, careful
manipulations of delicate instruments with the steering wheel of her
motor car. Last week we had eaten a dinner prepared wholly by her. This
week she was working out one of the great triumphs of modern science.
It seemed almost a shame to confine those talents in a single home--but
yet--and the old train of thought started on its ever recurring cycle.

Suddenly Tom threw down his pen. “Beat you that time, old girl!” he
said. Dorothy gave no heed, but figured on for a minute more. Then she,
too, dropped her pen.

“Want my figures, Tom?” she asked.

“Not yet,” answered Tom. “Wait for Jones. I’ll go and get the maps, and
we’ll work the second step as soon as we have checked these figures.”

Jones worked laboriously on, and Tom had gone and returned, bearing two
huge portfolios, before his task was ended.

“Read off,” said Tom, and a whole series of numerals came from
Dorothy’s lips, at each of which Jones nodded his head. As she ended
she looked inquiringly at Tom.

“Right,” said he. “Now reverse the beam to find the slit.”

Jones brought a small scale, with lights mounted with flexible cords.
He placed it across the beam, sighted through it as Tom threw off the
lights, and, after a brief manipulation, threw a switch. All turned
to gaze at the belt. Through a single slit an almost geometric line of
light shone forth.

“Beautiful! beautiful!” cried Tom; and Dorothy cried, “Oh, Jim! oh,
Tom! we’ve got it.”

My name came first to her hour of triumph. I had time to notice that,
before the lights went on once more. Tom took a dozen hasty readings,
and rapidly read them off. Another period of rapid computation
followed, then one by one, Dorothy leading, they made a swift survey of
maps. More and more anxious grew the trio as they went on. Map followed
map, till Dorothy came to a final one, made her last measurement, and
sat back in apparently complete bewilderment. Tom, by a different
route, reached the same map and drew it from her, shaking his head
vehemently, and Jones, laboring heavily along in the rear, finally
stretched his hand for the same sheet.

“What have you got, Jones?” said Tom sharply.

“Tokio, Japan,” said Jones. “What do you get?”

“Tokio, confound it!” said Tom.

Dorothy sat back in her chair and began to laugh at his disgusted tone.
“Tom, you get excited too easily. How do you know that he may not be
there!”

“I don’t,” growled Tom. “But I don’t believe he’s gone from Brest to
Tokio in ten days, especially when he is to sink a German warship next.”

“But there may be a German warship there,” answered Dorothy.

“There isn’t a first-class German battleship in Asiatic waters to-day,”
I broke in. “I’m following every one, and they’ve all been called in
to home stations within a month, on some excuse of trial mobilization.
They’ve all passed Suez.”

Tom gave a long whistle. “We set the machine for those terrific waves
that ‘the man’ uses. Of course somebody in Tokio might have them, but
it’s improbable. Let’s start her up again.”

Once more the lights were lowered, once more the belt resumed its
revolution, as we watched. Scarcely a minute passed, and the machine
stopped as before, with a click. The beam fluttered for a moment, and
stopped apparently in the same place where it started.

“Well, I’ll be hanged!” said Tom, as he hurried over to examine it.
“.0001,” he read off.

“Why, that’s not outside New York. Don’t figure it,” said Dorothy.
“Reverse the beam.”

No sooner said than done, and a slit on the left sprang into light. Tom
stood blankly, his hands deep in his pockets, as he gazed.

“Telephone Carrener in the Physical Laboratory up at U. C. N. Y.” said
Dorothy excitedly. “Ask him what he’s doing now.”

Tom jumped for the telephone, and a rapid-fire volley of calls and
questions followed. As he hung up the receiver, he turned to us
despairingly. “It was Carrener. He’s just been making some radio-active
experiments. The blamed machine registers every strong radio-active
wave that’s sent out anywhere in the world.”

“Then all you’ve got to do is to adjust the apparatus till you get a
new adjustment which will register ‘the man’s’ wave, isn’t it?” I asked.

“Yes,” snapped Tom, “and it took Denckel three years to get that
adjustment, and there’s no data on how he did it. The rest was easy
compared to this. If we only had that lost manuscript.”

Jones sat huddled in a dejected heap. Dorothy’s cheery face was
downcast. “I must confess,” she sighed, “that I’m afraid the apparatus
isn’t going to be of any immediate use to us without the manuscript.”

“Any immediate use!” sputtered Tom. “The old thing isn’t worth a rap.
It’ll be registering every trolley car that goes by next. We’ve done
every thing we know how to fix it, and it may be ten years before we
find out what’s the trouble. If we only had the Denckel manuscript.”

“Yes, if we only had Denckel’s work,” said Dorothy wearily. “But we
haven’t. There’s no use doing anything more to-night. We’ll go at it
again in the morning.”

The next two days brought no result. The wave-measuring machine would
tell where the waves came from, but it would do nothing towards
separating them. Day after day the reflectoscopes were watched for
the expected sinking of the German ship, but without avail. Change
after change was made in the Denckel apparatus, in the hope that the
next alteration might be the right one, and that it might come in
time to place the man, before the next battleship went down. Saturday
afternoon, the last day of the week in which the man was to sink
the German battleship, we sat as usual in the laboratory. The last
adjustment had been as unsuccessful as the rest, and Tom and Dorothy
sat in deep thought, while Jones was scraping the insulation from some
wire at one side.

“If we only had that manuscript,” said Tom, for the thousandth time,
“but failing it, let’s have another try. Jones, will you bring me that
manuscript? I mean the old table of wave constants we made up last
winter.”

“That’s it,” remarked Dorothy. “His mind is so intent on the manuscript
that he ordered it instead of soup the other day.”

To that maelstrom of papers, his desk, Jones turned to find the needed
table of constants, and, after watching his efforts for a few minutes,
Tom turned to Dorothy.

“Find it, will you, Dorothy? I imagine it’s there.”

Dorothy took command, as Tom and I sat in silence. Suddenly Dorothy’s
clear voice rang out. “Look, look!” and she came rushing across the
room to us, holding aloft a big brown paper package, followed by Jones.
“It’s here, it’s here! Mr. Jones had it in his desk, and forgot to give
it to you.”

Tom cast one look of scorn on the apologetic Jones, as he came slowly
forward.

“You immortal id--” he began, but Dorothy put her hand over his mouth.

“Never mind, dear, it’s here. Don’t waste time. Open it, and see what
it says.”

Scarcely five minutes passed, when Tom cried, “Here it is,” and read
rapidly in German to his assistants. “We can have it in shape in an
hour. There’s just that one missing part that threw us completely off,”
he ended. He looked at his watch. “Five o’clock by London time, and
sometime before twelve, if the man does as he said he would, the German
battleship will be destroyed, if it’s not gone already. We’ve got to
hustle.”

They had worked before eagerly. They worked feverishly now. Even my
unskilled labor was called in, and I held and scraped, polished and
hammered to the best of my limited ability. Six o’clock, seven, eight,
nine, one by one they passed. Tom’s hour had grown to four, and reached
almost to five, ere the last connection was made. He stood back and
threw the switch that set the belt in motion. As the belt revolved, he
glanced at the reflectoscope beside him. “No result there as yet,” he
said reflectively. “I guess we are safe.” Ten had passed, eleven come
and gone, still we waited. Tom had set his laboratory clock to London
time, and as the first stroke of twelve struck he rose, stretching
his arms. “First time he’s mis--” As he spoke, the beam flashed from
the zero well down the board, fluttered as before, and stood still
while the belt stopped. We glanced at the reflectoscopes. Their golden
ribbons had sprung apart and stood stiffly separate. Everything was
at hand this time. Not a word was spoken, but the three bent to
their task, figuring with intense rapidity. Tom and Dorothy finished
together. Jones, just behind, ran his computing rule faster than he had
ever done anything before in my presence. As they ended, Tom spoke.
“The harbor--”

“Of Portsmouth, England,” finished Dorothy, and the other two nodded
gravely. I sat beside the telephone. We had made sure that an operator
who knew that a call was coming sat at the branch exchange, and
without a second’s delay I had the office and had told the news. I held
the wire till the word came back. “O. K. Nobody has heard of it yet. If
it is true, it is another big beat.”

The real gravity of the situation did not come to me with full force,
until I read the accounts in the morning papers. The first news
that appeared of the sinking of His Germanic Majesty’s first-class
battleship, Kaiser Charlemagne, had come from me. The moment my story
was received in the office, they had cabled their London correspondent
in cipher. As soon as the other papers saw the story in our special
edition, they had likewise rushed cables and wireless messages across.
In consequence, a horde of correspondents had descended on Portsmouth
before morning dawned. The night before there had lain in the harbor
three German battleships, the Kaiser Charlemagne, the flagship,
standing farthest out. In the morning there were but two. At first,
half incredulous but yet fearful from the past, the officers of the
German and of the English fleets refused to believe the story, but
the watch on three ships had seen the lights of the German flagship
disappear, and hasty search had proved the fact of her disappearance.
By early morning they were forced to the conviction that the Kaiser
Charlemagne had followed the Alaska, the Dreadnought Number 8 and La
Patrie Number 3.

The cumulative effect of this last blow was tremendous. Before this
the world had been hoping against hope, but now sudden, unreasoning
panic took control. Up to this time the stock markets of the world had
been buoyed up by the support of the great capitalists, and by the
aid of the governments. But they had been growing steadily weaker and
weaker, and the opening of the Exchange in London and of the Bourses
on the continent saw stocks tumbling as never before. All America knew
of the ruin abroad when our stock markets opened here, and a panic day
unparalleled in our financial history began. After a sleepless night
one operator remarked to another, as they walked up Wall Street, “The
sinking of battleships is bad enough, but how much worse if he should
begin to sink merchant vessels.” The market quivered. The next man
passed it on. “How terrible if ‘the man’ should sink the transatlantic
liners carrying gold.” The market trembled. A brokerage house gave
forth the tip. “The man who is stopping all war has declared that he
will sink every transatlantic liner carrying gold, as he considers
gold the sinews of war.” The market shook to its very foundations.
The papers heard the lying news, and published it in scare heads.
The market broke utterly and went plunging to utter destruction.
Industrials and railroads dropped sixty to two hundred points in an
hour. It was one wild scramble, which ended only when no one would buy
at any price whatsoever. The day ended with meetings of ruined men
sending delegates to the various governments, in a first general appeal
for disarmament.

The morning of the second day after the sinking of the Kaiser
Charlemagne showed practically but three things in the papers; the
account of the panic the day before; futile discussions as to the
identity and plans of the man who was trying to stop all war; and
stories of deputations entreating the governments of the various
powers to disarm. Apparently the last months had raised the numbers
of the peace advocates by millions. The papers which had given a few
columns a year to such propaganda now gave pages daily. Other factional
differences became forgotten. The real need for protecting the lives
and property of the nation, the fancied need of protecting commerce,
was the theme of every orator at every meeting.

In one place only were these deputations received with no
consideration. The German Kaiser, the War Lord, bearded by a single
man, stripped of one of his proudest battleships, received all words
regarding peace with utter contumely. All papers agreed in considering
him the chief stumbling block in the way of a universal peace.

I was running over the morning papers when a card was brought to me.
It was that of Ordway, my old Washington friend, who, as private
secretary to the Secretary of War, gave me the message!

“Hullo, Malachi, you old prophet of evil!” he remarked, with a cheerful
grin, as he entered. “Give me an inside tip on the end of the world,
will you? I’ll use it to bear the market.”

“My prophecy shop is closed to-day,” I replied, in his own vein. “What
brings you from Washington?”

“I came wholly to see you,” he said seriously. “The President made me
a special agent to get a line on what you were doing. The report that
came to him from the Attorney General, the time they put you in jail,
whetted his curiosity, so he sent me up here to see things for myself.
Will you let me see Haldane’s machine?”

“Gladly,” I answered, and we started for the laboratory.

“Between ourselves,” remarked Ordway, as we walked from the car, “and
strictly not for publication, there’s the deuce to pay with the Kaiser.
He’s mad as hops about his ship’s going down in Portsmouth Harbor. He
thinks it’s an invidious distinction to have the Kaiser Charlemagne go
down in a foreign port, when the other boats have gone down on their
own shores. He’d declare war on England for sixpence. Things were
strained enough with the commercial rivalry of the last few years, but
they’re at breaking point now. It would take a mighty small straw to
break that uneasy camel’s back.”

Tom and Dorothy were both in the laboratory, and they greeted Ordway
cordially. The especial interest centred in the wave-measuring
apparatus. The polished belt was revolving with regular precision, and
the beam stood fixed at zero.

“I wish you could have been here and seen it work, when the Kaiser
Charlemagne went down,” said Dorothy.

“I wish I might,” answered Ordway.

Scarcely were the words out of his mouth, when the click and the
springing beam sent my heart into my mouth. Dorothy and Tom sprang for
paper and their data. Ordway looked on in amazement.

“What’s up, Orrington?” he asked. “What did the thing stop for?”

“Another ship has gone down,” I answered; “but of what nation I know no
more than you.”

We waited silently till the computation was ended. Dorothy looked up
with knotted brow. “I make it Portsmouth again. Do you, Tom?”

“So do I,” said Tom. “There must be some mistake. Let’s go over the
figures again.”

Again they obtained the same result, and an hour passed before they
gave up searching for possible errors.

“What are you going to do about it, Orrington?” asked Ordway finally.

“I’m not going to do anything. It must be a mistake.”

“Why not telephone your office and see if they’ve heard anything?”

“I did so. They heard nothing, but promised to telephone me as soon as
they did.”

We had sat for a couple of hours talking when the bell rang, and I
answered. It was the office.

“You slipped up this time, Orrington,” said the man at the other end.
“A German battleship, the Kaiserin Luisa, has just disappeared off
Portsmouth.”

I passed the word to the eager trio.

“That means war between England and Germany,” cried Ordway.

“I believe it does,” I exclaimed, “and I’m going to take the first boat
for London. Here’s just the chance to run him down. He’ll be sure to
stay in one place now. His work will be in the British Channel.”

“We’ll come too,” cried Dorothy, her eyes lighting at the prospect of
the chase. “We’ll bring along the wave-measuring machine, and run him
down at close quarters, won’t we, Tom?”

Tom nodded vigorously. “I’m with you. This man has simply obsessed me.
I can’t do any decent work till I’ve found him.”




CHAPTER VIII


A fierce and sudden gust, which swelled to greater fury the flood of
a howling gale, slammed the smoking-room door in my face, at the very
moment that a quivering, throbbing heave from the great screw shook
the mighty liner from stem to stern. Beaten back from the wall, as the
ship rolled heavily, I pitched headlong, and went sliding and tumbling
across the deck, clutching wildly at its edge for the netting of the
rail. There, huddled against the side, I gasped until breath came, and
then painfully traversed the wet and slippery deck on hands and knees.
With a sudden effort I caught at the big brass handle, turned it and
sprang within, accompanied by a drenching spray.

No contrast could have been greater than the sudden change from the
wild drift of bitter wind and rain without to the bright warmth and
quiet comfort of the smoking-room within. The habitués who commonly
filled the alcoves and the centre were mainly absent, chained to
their berths, for the gale which had lasted a full two days had swept
from the room all but two quartettes of bridge players, a placid
Britisher in full dress in the centre, who was solacing himself with
his invariable evening’s occupation of Scotch and soda, and Tom, alone,
in a corner alcove, his back against the wall, his feet sprawling along
the cushions, and his pipe firmly clenched between his teeth. As I
pushed my way by the square centre table of the alcove and sank down on
the opposite cushions, he looked up, a thoughtful frown wrinkling his
forehead.

“I’ve been thinking about our next move,” he began, only to break off
abruptly. “What on earth is the matter with you? You look as if you had
been shipwrecked.”

“This is merely the result,” I answered, “of a perilous trip outside
the smoking-room door for the purpose of taking a weather observation.
As a matter of fact, you’re responsible for it; I was driven to the
act by your loquacity. We came up here at half past seven and you have
spoken exactly three times since, each time to give an order. I really
had to do something desperate to attract your attention.”

“You did it,” said Tom decisively. “Hurt in any way?”

“Oh, no,” I answered. “Slight bruises, really nothing of any
consequence at all.”

Turned by the incident from his preoccupation, Tom rose, stretched
himself thoroughly, and bent to peer out of the rain-swept porthole.
“This certainly is a nasty night,” he said, as he resumed his original
position. “She is rolling and pitching at a great rate. If it does not
quit soon, this gale will send many a good ship to the bottom. We’re
safe enough here, but this weather must be pretty hard on the small
boats.”

As Tom refilled his pipe, I sat musing on the images his words had
roused of the strange and sudden plunge of a mighty ship down, down to
the very depths of the sea, of that wonderful world that lies below the
waves, upon whose sandy floor lie many navies whose gallant ships rest
in their last anchorage, whose thousands of rugged sailors are buried
in their last sleep, whose burdened, hoarded wealth is kept forever
idle by that great miser, the deep. As I mused, I spoke unconsciously.
“I wonder how this storm would seem on the bottom of the sea.”

“Quiet enough there, I presume,” answered Tom, following, to my
surprise, my spoken thought. “You know men who sought for sunken
treasure ships have found things quite unmoved, after centuries have
rolled away. Save for the covering of sand or silt, the boat which
reaches the bottom may leave its bones for centuries unchanged.”

My mind travelled a step farther, from normal shipwrecks to abnormal
ones, and then turned swiftly to those catastrophes which were never
far from my mind, the beginning and in one sense the end of our
mission, the battleships which disappeared. “If Dorothy’s belief is
correct, and the engines of destruction used by ‘the man’ affect metal
only, then I suppose the crews of the Alaska and the rest went to the
bottom.”

“Undoubtedly,” answered Tom laconically.

One by one, as in a naval review, the Alaska, the Dreadnought Number
8, La Patrie Number 3, the Kaiserin Luisa and the Kaiser Charlemagne
imaged themselves upon the tablets of my brain, and with the last
appeared a film of Portsmouth Harbor where the great engine of war
anchored for the last time. I straightened up suddenly and leaned
across to Tom, who now sat gazing peacefully at space.

“Tom,” I exclaimed quietly, but earnestly, “I can tell you the next
move. We’ll send down to the bottom of the sea, and find out what
record remains there of the work done by ‘the man.’”

Quick as a flash Tom was all attention. “By George,” he ejaculated,
lowering his voice an instant later, as he saw that his exclamation had
startled the bridge players opposite. “I believe that is the scheme. It
ought not to take us very long, and we might get a bully clue from it.
How shall we go about it?”

Swiftly I unfolded my plan, the ideas rushing in upon me as I
proceeded. “We land at Southampton, anyway, and it’s only an hour’s run
down Southampton Water to Portsmouth. We won’t go up to London at all;
we’ll go straight to Portsmouth and put up there. Then we’ll find out
just where the Kaiser Charlemagne or the Kaiserin Luisa stood, and get
some divers to go down and report.”

“That’s a great idea,” said Tom reflectively. “It resolves itself
really into two parts,--finding out just exactly where one of the
German ships stood, and getting down to the bottom there. It ought not
to be so very difficult. I wonder nobody has thought of it. But if
they had, I imagine, we should have heard of it, because the wireless
newspaper on board is giving news of that kind pretty well in full.
I’ll tell you one thing though,” he went on, “I wish Dorothy could
have been with us instead of having to wait over a couple of boats to
straighten out that Boy’s Club business of hers. I’d like mighty well
to get her opinion.”

“Same here,” I remarked forcefully.

Two days later saw us safely through the English Customs and rolling
along over the little line which runs past old Clausentrum, relic
of the days when Rome with bloody hand made peace in Britain, to
Portsmouth and its harbor, with the Isle of Wight forming the
foreground to the broad blue reaches of the Channel.

No greater hum of business could have been found all Britain over than
in this seaport town. Jackies hurried to and fro with orders. Marines
marched in companies to the wharves. Officers in service dress scurried
by in motor cars. Tommies for once moved swiftly, without even a
sidelong glance at the red-cheeked nurses in the Park. Everything gave
the impression of activity, of preparation pushed to the last degree of
haste. Whatever the prospects of war might be, Portsmouth was as busy
as if war were on.

Though we reached Portsmouth at noon, it was more than two o’clock
before we could secure rooms. Every hotel was crowded. Scarcely could
we get a word from the busy clerks, and at last we were driven to
lodgings. Throwing ourselves on the mercy of a cabman we wandered up
and down, thoroughly thankful when we obtained some clean, decent rooms
in a little house in the Portsea region.

Somewhat to our surprise, our quest proved difficult. We drove to the
dockyard. “No admittance without special orders from the admiralty,”
stared us in the face,--an order made yet more effective by the gruff
silence of the sentinels. We tried the harbor authorities and the Town
Hall. Both had been turned into governmental bureaus, and both refused
admittance on any terms. Vainly I pleaded my connection with the
press. That move only increased the suspicious reserve which surrounded
us. Vainly we tried the soothing effect of the golden sovereign. We
were rebuffed at every turn, till forced to temporary inaction, we
gloomily turned back towards our lodgings.

“There’s nothing doing so far as the authorities are concerned,”
remarked Tom, as we walked along. “We’ve got to try some other tack.
If we could only find somebody here in town who wasn’t an official,
and yet who would know where either of those ships stood. None of the
dealers in ships’ stores would know, because the German boats would
have received their stores at the wharf. By Jove, though, here’s an
idea.” He brightened up. “If, by any lucky chance, they took on fuel
here, we might get some light on the place from the coal man. Here’s a
chemist’s shop, let’s look up a directory.”

We entered, and ran rapidly over the names of dealers in the business
directory that was handed us. Dealer after dealer, whose name appeared
therein, sold goods that belong with the sea. Ship chandlery, plumbing
for yachts and vessels, calkers, sailmakers. Ah, here it was! Fuel
supplied to vessels. There were some fifteen names on the list. I
copied them off, and turned to the young man behind the counter. “Which
of this list,” I asked, “would be entirely capable of coaling a large
merchantman immediately?” The clerk ran his eye down the list. “This,
and this, and this firm,” he answered briefly, pointing at three.

The office before which we finally stopped looked peculiarly
businesslike as we reconnoitred through its broad window. “Looks just
like home,” murmured Tom, as we gazed at the smart young man in dapper
tweeds dictating to a stenographer whose pompadour, though like a
single tree in a forest had it been on lower Broadway, yet seemed a
rare exotic in this English seaport town. The Remington machine at one
side, the brightness of the office furniture, the whole atmosphere, in
short, was a stage picture, a sudden revival of the world we had left
less than a week ago.

“He is,” exclaimed Tom, without the slightest apparent connection. “See
that life insurance calendar on the wall!”

A flaming, big-lettered, American calendar appeared at the end of his
pointing finger.

“May as well play it boldly, anyway,” murmured Tom, pushing open the
door. “Pardon me,” he said, as he entered. “We’re Americans, and want
to know something about coal.”

Our dapper friend from behind the desk was on his feet in a moment,
stepping towards me with outstretched hand. “Mr. Orrington, I’m
proud to see you here.” I looked at him in complete surprise, while
Tom looked on in equal amaze. The stenographer sitting behind her
keys raised one hand to pat her hair, and stared in undisguised and
interested wonder.

“I’m afraid you have the advantage of me,” I remarked.

“That’s not surprising,” answered the young man with a smile. “You
never saw me before, but look here.”

I followed blindly around his desk, and waited while he pulled open a
drawer at the side. “Exhibit Number one,” he remarked as he took out an
American illustrated weekly bearing an imprint of my features. It had
appeared just after my second signed story came out.

“Oh,” I remarked briefly and lucidly.

“Exhibit Number two,” our friend went on, bringing to my astonished
gaze a file of my own paper, whereupon my own stories showed their
large familiar headlines at the top.

“That’s what it is to be famous,” said a laughing voice over my
shoulder. “Now, I could travel the world over and never find anybody to
recognize me.”

“Then it’s up to me to bring you into the limelight,” I said,
recovering. “This is Prof. Haldane, Mr.--?”

“Thompson, at your service,” supplied the manager. “From New York,
sent over here to take charge of this end two years ago, likewise a
sincere admirer of your work. Now, what can I do for you?”

I glanced at the stenographer meaningly.

“Say anything you please; it will go no farther, gentlemen. Let me
introduce Mrs. Thompson.”

We rose and bowed.

“We were both in the same office there,” explained the manager, “and
when they gave me this berth we decided to come together.”

“I am over here on business,” I began.

“Still after the man who is trying to stop all war?” interrupted
Thompson.

“Yes,” I answered. “What we want now is to find out just where the
Kaiser Charlemagne or the Kaiserin Luisa went down. If we can find
that, we shall get divers and go down to the bottom. As we could get no
news at any of the government offices, we thought we would try to find
some dealer here who might have supplied either of the boats with coal.”

“Hit it first time trying,” said Thompson, with a smile. “The Kaiser
Charlemagne took on no liquid here, but the Kaiserin Luisa took a
thousand barrels the day before she sunk.” Tom let out a long whistle.
“That’s one reason why the Kaiserin Luisa, the Alaska, and the rest
went down without a sound. Extraordinary that I never thought of
that before. They all burn hydrocarbons instead of coal, and the new
hydrocarbon fuels would disappear in the water.

“Not a modern warship left to-day which doesn’t burn liquid fuel, and
most of it’s ours,” said Thompson enthusiastically. “They had to come
to it, especially when we put out our new boiler attachment by which
they could change their furnaces over to use liquids without changing
any other part of the machinery.”

Tom nodded appreciatively. “I see,” he said. “Now as to the main
question. How can we find out just where the Kaiserin Luisa went down?”

Thompson turned to his wife. “Lulu, will you telephone down and see if
Cap’n McPherson is at the wharf. If he is, have them send him here at
once.”

A moment’s low conversation in the telephone booth, and Mrs. Thompson
returned. “He’ll come right up,” she said, and, turning to her machine,
was soon pounding away at the keys with a practised hand.

“Remarkable woman, my wife,” said Thompson, swelling with intense pride
behind the shelter of his rolltop desk. “Took a medal for speed in
an open competition. Smart as they make ’em in any deal. Never lets
family relationships stand in the way of business. B. F. T. S. I call
her, ‘business from the start.’” He would have gone on, but the door
opened, and a huge grizzled sailor with an officer’s cap in his hand
lumped in. His massive bulk loomed above us for a moment, as Thompson
motioned him to a chair.

“You put the liquid on board the Kaiserin Luisa the day before she
disappeared, didn’t you?” asked Thompson.

“Aye, sir,” came the deep answer from the depths of the Captain’s chest.

“Can you tell us just where she lay?” the manager went on.

Captain McPherson stirred uneasily as he looked at us. “I’ve heer’d
said we were to say naught of that unfort’nit ship,” he rumbled,
turning half round to regard us with a fixed stare.

“That’s all right, Cap’n,” said Thompson. “These gentlemen have been
sent here to investigate the matter, and you are to tell them all you
know.”

The Captain evidently felt misgivings, but the habit of obeying the
orders of his superiors was not lightly to be broken. “If ye go
straight out from the carstle till the Ry’al Jarge buoy’s in line with
three chimneys t’gether on the shore, ye’ll have the spot where she lay
when we were ’longside.”

“Thank you, Cap’n, that’s all,” said Thompson.

Whereupon Captain McPherson rose and lumbered off as heavily as he had
come.

“I’ve seen the castle,” I remarked, “but how on earth can I find the
Royal George buoy, and what is it?”

“Queer thing that,” said Thompson. “That’s where the Royal George went
down, with all on board, a hundred and thirty years or so ago. Now the
Kaiserin Luisa disappears, in the same place. It’s a red buoy right off
Smithsea, you can’t miss it.”

“Right,” said Tom. “So far so good. Now, you haven’t a couple of divers
in your desk drawer, have you?”

Thompson laughed. “Sure thing,” he said. “At least I can send you to
one, Joe Miggs, who has done more or less work for us. There’s the
address,” he said, writing it on a card. “Come and see us before you
go.”

Exultantly we left the office, looking back through the window to see
our compatriot waving farewell, while his wife, patting her pompadour
with one hand, fluttered her handkerchief with the other. By dock and
arsenal, through sounds of clanging furnaces and roar of forges, we
passed to the street we sought and to the house, a house of mark which
bore proudly upon its front a life-size picture of a diver completely
apparisoned, with the words “J. Miggs, Diver,” in very small letters
below. The low, dark door gave entrance to a small shop, where a man,
whistling cheerfully, was using a small soldering tool on a diver’s
helmet, assisted by a boy clad in a ticking apron. The man was J.
Miggs. Our friend Thompson’s card brought a sudden stop to the cheerful
whistle, and it was with a somewhat troubled face that J. Miggs rose,
sending his young assistant from the room. The boy out, he locked both
doors to the shop carefully, and returned to us.

“Mr. Thompson says that you want a diver,” said Miggs, in a low voice.
“I’d do anything I could for Mr. Thompson. Many’s the good job he’s got
for me, but I can’t, I absolutely can’t. We’ve been forbidden to take
any jobs at all. Notice was served on every diver in town, and me and
my partner can’t risk it.”

“What’s your regular rate for going down here in the harbor?” asked Tom.

“Two pounds a day, sir, for each of us. Four pounds for the two, if me
and my partner work together.”

“I’ll give you ten pounds apiece for one night’s work,” said Tom.

The man wavered. “I’ve no money for a fortnight, sir, and I’d like to
do it, but I dare not; the officers would put me out of business, and
I’ve got to support my family.”

Tom persisted. “I’ll give you ten pounds for your family, and ten
pounds more when you go down.”

J. Miggs took thought, hesitated, wavered, and at length capitulated.
“I’ll do it, sir,” he said, “if you’ll do one thing. If they take my
diving rig away, will you agree to pay for a new one?”

“I will,” said Tom, “and I’ll leave the price of it with Mr. Thompson
to-night.”

His last scruples vanished, and J. Miggs was ours. “We’ve got two suits
over at Brading Harbor, on the Isle of Wight, where we were working.
If you’ll tell me your place, we’ll meet you to-night where you’re
staying, take you across in the motor boat, get the suits, and get back
in time to have five or six hours to work, wherever you say. But it
must be to-night. To-night’s the last night without a moon.”

Leaving J. Miggs our address, we went back to our lodgings, by way of
Southsea Castle and the piers, to take a preliminary observation of the
buoy of the “R’yal Jarge.” We had swallowed a hasty supper, laid in a
good store of clothing for the chill of night on the water, and were
waiting patiently for the call, when there was a knock at the door. As
it opened, there entered not J. Miggs, but his small boy helper, whom
we had seen earlier.

“Miggs’s been jugged,” he cried breathlessly. “He and Joe Hines. The
bobbies come and took ’em an hour ago. He told me, when he saw ’em
comin’, to run and tell you.”




CHAPTER IX


The engines of the motor boat slowed, gave a final chug, and stopped.
“Brading Harbor,” remarked our boy guide laconically, as he threw the
anchor, and stepped to the stern to pull in the skiff that trailed
after us. Before us lay the estuary of the Yar, its black water
scarcely differentiated in color from the dark shores that rose above
it. A huddle of buildings lifting on our left changed from blots of
blackness into shadowy outlines, sprinkled here and there with light,
as we rowed in. The lad pulled steadily, with but an occasional glance
at the shore. The steady strokes of the oar slowed down, the blackness
ahead seemed to rush towards us more swiftly, and the boat ran silently
up on to the sand. I jumped out, the little anchor in my hand. We were
at Brading Harbor.

Without a word, the boy pulled up the boat, dug the flukes of the
anchor deep into the sand, and started off into the darkness.

“Come on, Tom,” I said laughing. “This is an Arabian Night Expedition
headed by one of the mutes of Haroun Al Raschid. Hustle up, or we’ll
be left behind.” About three hundred yards from our landing-place our
guide suddenly disappeared; we came abruptly on the corner of a small
brick building, and rounded it to find him working on the padlock of a
broad, low door.

“Bee’s here,” remarked the boy, flinging the door open as we came up.

We stepped just inside and paused. The scratch of a fusee, the clatter
of a lifted lantern, and the low room sprung into light.

A weird sight met our eyes. On a shelf three great diving helmets, with
shining cyclopean eyes of heavy glass, reflected back the lantern’s
flame, and showed barred side windows looking like caged ear-muffs. On
the shelf below three pair of huge shoes, with leaden soles, seemed
ready for some giant’s foot, rather than for the use of man. As the
light shifted, the armor on the wall came into view; copper breastplate
and twilled overalls, hosepipe and coils of safety line; a veritable
museum of diving paraphernalia.

Tom turned to the boy. “You’ll have to show us very carefully how to
run the safety line and the air pump, while you’re down.”

“I don’t go down,” said the boy. “Heart’s wike loike. Niver go down.”

Tom and I stared at each other in consternation. With one accord we
turned to the boy again.

“Who is going down?” I cried.

“Ayther of you thot loikes,” responded the boy calmly.

“I’ll be the one to go, Tom,” I cried, “I’ve got to see it with my own
eyes to write it up properly.”

“Why can’t we both go?” exclaimed Tom eagerly. “I don’t want to be out
of this.”

The boy broke in. “Needs two men oop on rope and poomp.”

“Oh pshaw!” said Tom disgustedly, “I don’t see why I shouldn’t be in
this. I tell you what we’ll do,” he went on, his face brightening, “you
go down first, and then come up, and I’ll go down after you.”

“All right,” I said. “It’s a go.”

The boy had stood motionless while our discussion had gone on.

“How’ll you get the stuff down?” I asked.

“Tike it on a barrow,” he replied briefly, turning to bring a big
wheelbarrow forward.

“Tike they two,” he said, pointing to the two helmets on the right and
the shoes below them. Tom and the lad took a helmet, and placed it on
the barrow. I took a pair of shoes, and nearly dropped them. “Great
Scott,” I ejaculated, “they weigh a ton.”

“Twinty pund,” corrected the lad, without a smile. “You’ll need it on
bottom.”

We loaded till the boy said “stop,” then took our burden to the skiff,
carried it out to the boat, returned for a second load, shipped that,
locked the door, and came down to the shore through the still night. We
had neither seen nor heard any one during our visit.

As we started out of Brading Harbor, Tom remarked, “I’ll take the
wheel, boy, I’ve got the course. Get the armor on Mr. Orrington.”

Never did I experience such a strange toilet. The dress of tan twill,
interlined with sheet rubber, and the copper breastplate were clumsy
and awkward enough. The shoes, twenty pounds to each foot, were no
winged sandals of Mercury, but the huge helmet was worst of all. I
seemed to be prisoned in a narrow cell and, despite myself, I could not
wholly keep from wondering what would happen, if the air pipe should
break, or the rope snap. The big lens, the bull’s-eye that was the
window of the front of the helmet, was left open till I went down, and
I took in the salt air in huge breaths through the orifice, expanding
my chest to its full capacity, while the lad silently plied his wrench
on the nuts that clamped the helmet water-tight. At length the suit was
adjusted, and the safety line tied securely round my waist. Then the
boy spoke.

“Up one, down two. That’s all ye need.” He jerked the rope in my hand
once, twice, and then started forward to take the wheel. We had been
racing swiftly across, towards the lights of Portsmouth, as I made
my diving toilet, but my thoughts, far swifter, had gone thousands
of miles more. Suppose I never came up? If I did not, would Dorothy
ever know? Had I made a mistake in not speaking before? Unavailing
regret tore at me. Yet stronger than any regret or any weakness was my
determination to fulfil my mission. Here was the next step. I must see
what lay below the waves. As I sat there, in my cumbrous raiment, I
tried to analyze my sensations. No danger I had heretofore encountered
had ever caused me anything but a pleasing excitement. Why should this
have a disquieting effect upon me, when Tom was so eager to go. The
answer came like a flash, in Lord Bacon’s words, “He that hath wife and
children, hath given hostages to fortune.” I had neither as yet, but my
whole heart was set on having them. My feeling was not cowardly fear.
Rather, it was instinctive regret at taking the chance of going and
leaving Dorothy behind. I breathed easier when I had worked that out,
and gradually, as my mind quieted, the uneasiness gave away to a sense
of eager expectation. The shore lights were growing brighter, and Tom,
leaving his place at the bow, came down the boat towards my seat in the
stern.

“We’re almost there, old man,” he remarked jubilantly. “The lad has
the bearings. He’ll put us over the exact spot, and then you can go
overboard. It’s a chance of a lifetime.”

Just as he spoke, the lad turned. “Bee’s there,” he said, as he stopped
the motor and threw out an anchor. The great coil of rope ran swiftly
down for a considerable distance, and brought the boat up with a jerk.
The boy came back towards us.

“Screw up t’ bull’s-eye now an’ start t’ poomp,” he directed.

“Good luck, old man,” said Tom, wringing my hand, as he started up the
air pump.

“Same to you. I go with leaden steps,” I remarked, waving my lead-soled
shoe as I spoke.

Tom’s hearty laugh was the last thing I heard. The bull’s-eye shut,
and I found myself breathing fast. To my surprise the air supply was
ample, no trace of taint,--good, wholesome air. “Come,” I said to
myself. “This is not half bad.” Aided by the boy, I clambered clumsily
over the bow and went down the little ladder. As I entered the water,
the weight of my suit went from me, I was borne up as if I were in
swimming, but, as I sank slowly, I began to feel a strange earache,
increasing in intensity till I thought I should cry out with the agony.
My forehead above my eyes seemed clamped in a circlet of red hot
iron, and the bells of a thousand church spires seemed ringing and
reverberating through my head. I could see dimly the black water about
me, and I gripped the metal case of the electric lamp that I held in my
hand, till I feared it would crush into fragments. All of a sudden I
touched bottom, and the pain ceased. The relief was so great that for
a moment or two I stood motionless, luxuriating in the respite and, as
I started to go on, I realized that a slight depression was the only
unusual bodily feeling left. I turned the switch of my lamp and looked
about me. Nothing but clean, white sand, nothing to show which way I
should turn. “Straight ahead is the best course,” I decided, and I
started forward, my boots and dress, heavy and dragging on the surface
as they were, of but the slightest inconvenience here. Fortunately for
me, the tide was no serious hindrance, and I was to windward of the
boat. Before moving I turned my lantern in every direction. One thing
was sure. There was no huge hulking shadow, such as a warship lying on
the bottom would make. My lamp but dimly outlined the lane of light on
the sand along which I started forward. Now that I was about my work,
and had safely reached the bottom, the strangeness of the situation
began to wear off. I went ahead twenty measured steps, casting my light
in every direction. No result. I paced back the same number to keep
my position even. Turned to the right, and repeated the maneuver.
Turned to the left, and did the same. No sign. Apparently the depths
had remained untouched since the Royal George had been cleared from
the harbor, back about 1840. Returned from my last trip, I turned off
my lantern, to save its current, and stood in the darkness pondering.
I did not want to go backward from the place where I was. Such a step
would put me to leeward of the boat, and the lad had warned me against
such a move, saying that it might be hard for me to make progress
against the tide. There was nothing to be done save to try a further
cast of fortune, so I pushed on twenty paces forward and started to
count twenty more. Just as I was reaching the limit, the lantern gleam
showed a shadow ahead of me. I hurried on till the object came into
the full light. There, peacefully as if sleeping in his quiet bed at
home, lay a midshipman in his blue uniform. He could not have been
fifteen years of age. His golden hair, that a mother might often have
kissed and caressed, swayed with the slight movement of the waters. His
arm lay naturally beneath his head. As I knelt beside this childish
victim of a dread mission, a wave of bitter rebellion passed over me.
I cried out in very intensity of feeling. The sound reverberating
through the helmet to my ears seemed a mighty roar, and, surprised into
realization, I braced myself to my work and looked more closely. There
was something strange about the uniform, something different from that
on the youngsters I had seen about German harbors. I studied the form
before me for a minute before I saw what it was. At last I placed it.
The buttons, the brass buttons were gone. I looked more narrowly.
Not a glint of metal showed. Rising, I passed on, and entered on a
city of the dead beneath the waves. Officer and sailor, steward and
electrician lay in quiet rest. They lay all around me, as if sleeping
on a battlefield, ready for the struggle of the morning. I had paced
many steps before I reached the end. A thousand men lay there. Not
one had even a shadow of surprise, of premonition of death, upon his
brow. All lay as if ready for the reveille, the reveille which would
not sound for them. It seemed no thing of earth. Rather a scene from
some unearthly vision where I, a disembodied spirit, walked among the
forgotten shells of other souls. I wakened with a start, as I came
sharp up against a mass which gave way at my approach. I flashed my
lamp upon it. A heap of crockery, broken and shattered, met my eye.
One plate in ornate gold showed the double eagle and below “Kaiserin
Luisa.” That heap of broken crockery and this city of the dead were all
that remained of as fine a battleship, of as magnificent a result of
human ingenuity and skill, as ever sailed the seas. I must not linger,
though, I had work enough to do, to find all I could of the reasons
for the catastrophe, and give place to Tom before the dawn could come.
Just beside me lay an officer. I could not tell his rank, for all
insignia had disappeared. I stooped to look for metal, when suddenly I
felt myself rising steadily. I was being drawn to the surface, though
I had given no signal. Indignantly I jerked the rope twice again
and again. The men above paid no heed to my commands, and I mounted
steadily upwards.

As I rose the same pains attacked me as when I descended, but the space
through which they endured seemed far shorter. In reality but a brief
interval elapsed before I was clambering up the little ladder, to find
myself in the full glare of a powerful search-light, while the boat
started off at full speed. I had no time to look around till the boy
helped me to loosen the bull’s-eye in the front of my helmet. Then I
surveyed the scene.

The boat was going at her top speed, while Tom ran her straight out
towards the Isle of Wight. The search-light of a warship a mile or more
away was playing constantly on us as we sped along, and I could see a
spot of darkness, probably a launch, leaving her side and starting in
our direction. As I gazed, I breathed in long breaths of fresh air. I
felt as if I had never known how good air, just plain air, was, before.

[Illustration: THE SEARCH-LIGHT OF A WARSHIP WAS PLAYING CONSTANTLY ON
US. [_Page 122._ ]

“Take off Mr. Orrington’s armor, boy,” ordered Tom sharply. “You all
right, Jim?”

“Sure,” I answered. “What are we in for?”

“I don’t know yet,” replied Tom, “but we’ll know pretty soon. We can’t
get away in this old boat. We’ll run as long as we can, though. Luckily
they sent a launch, not a torpedo boat or a destroyer. The battleship
landed us with their searchlight just a few minutes ago, and once they
fixed it on us, I pulled you up. Get anything?”

“Yes,” I replied, and fell back into silence, while the lad valeted me
out of my diving suit. The launch was coming swiftly. It seemed to be
moving two feet to our one.

“It’s going to be a pretty close shave,” I remarked, as I stood beside
Tom, who had given the wheel to the boy.

“Yes, but I’m going to head straight for Ryder, and trust to luck,” he
said. We were well towards the shores of the Isle as the launch came
near enough to hail.

“Stop or we shoot,” came hurtling at us.

“No go,” said Tom resignedly, as he stopped the engine, “and there’s
the shore not five hundred yards away.”

Just as he spoke, the light vanished. The searchlight had gone out;
something must have happened to the current. We could hear the officer
swear vigorously, as the launch came up.

Tom seized my arm. “To the dingy,” he whispered. “Lad, if you keep your
mouth shut, I’ll straighten everything out,” he murmured to the boy, as
we scrambled to the stern.

“Roight, sor,” said the boy briefly, as he sat phlegmatically beside
the engine.

Tumbling into the dingy, I seized the oars and pulled swiftly towards
the shore, as the launch came up on the opposite side. We could hear
the hail as the officer came aboard, and his angry raging “Where are
the other men?”

“Don’t know,” answered the boy.

The officer ran to the stern.

“They have the boat, follow them,” he cried, but just as the launch
turned, we struck the shore, and before the panting sailors could reach
us, were off the beach and sheltered in a deep doorway. We heard their
steps running by, as we stood crouched against the wall, but we dared
not venture out till we had heard them returning after a futile chase.
Once they were by, we started off into the country at a brisk pace.

The morning was well on as we came into Seaview, whence we had planned
to come back to Portsmouth. I had finished my story, and Tom had
meditated on it for an hour, while we strode sturdily on. As we stopped
by a wayside brook to freshen our toilet, he spoke. “No metal?”

“Not a bit,” I answered.

“Dorothy was right,” said Tom. “The man who is trying to stop all war
must have some terrific power which utterly destroys metal, causing it
to change completely into some other form, and instantly disappear. How
horrible to have that man at large. Jim, we’ve got to find him. That
little middy you told me of would fire my purpose ten times over, if it
were not ablaze already. There’s one thing though,--do you suppose the
British government knows what we know?”

“I have very little doubt they do,” I answered, “I fully believe that
somebody had been there before us. Everything points that way; the
closing of all diving operations by the authorities, the chase of our
boat and their persistent effort to capture us.”

“You must be right, Jim,” said Tom soberly. “They wouldn’t want any one
to know any more about conditions than they could help. You can’t tell
what little thing will start the fire of war just now. I guess we’d
better keep this to ourselves for the present.”

“Right you are,” I answered, as we walked into Seaview.

We reached our rooms without the slightest difficulty, and went to bed
after a hearty breakfast. We were awakened about twelve by a knock at
the door, and the call of a familiar voice. It was our friend Thompson,
the manager. He closed the door carefully, as I admitted him. Then he
turned and shook hands with me.

“Mr. Orrington,” he said, “you’re a great man, and a lucky one. J.
Miggs and his boy came to see me this morning.”

“Then they didn’t keep them?” I cried.

“No,” said Thompson laughing. “J. Miggs got out of prison, and his boy
never got there. The lad waked up for once. The launch with all its
crew went chasing you and, by the time they got back, the youngster was
safe at the dock at Portsmouth, and the suits were stored. You’d better
not see either of them though. They may be watched. If you’ll give me
the money, I’ll pay him and it will be all right.”

I paid the money, and we parted.

The moment Thompson closed the door, I rushed into Tom’s room.

“Get up,” I said energetically. “J. Miggs and his boy are both free;
I’ve left the money for them, and it’s time now for us to get out
immediately. This town is none too healthy a location for us, now that
business is out of the way.”

Tom’s loquaciousness had a habit of utterly disappearing, when a new
scientific conception entered his head. As we drove to the station,
he stopped the cab at a bookseller’s, dashed in, and returned with a
package of books and papers. Once settled in the train, “Don’t speak
to me till I get through, if you don’t mind,” he said, “I’ve got
something here I want to work out.” He opened his new package, spread
the books on the seat, and took up a block and his fountain pen. I
scanned the titles of his books casually. “New Insulators for High
Currents,” “Control and Insulation of Radio-active Apparatus,” “Yacht
Construction,” “Theory of Wood Working,” “Caema, What It Has Done for
Electricity,” “Types of Sailing Vessels for the Past Twenty Years.”
“Queer mixture,” I said to myself idly, and then I turned my attention
to the scenery.

Tom was busy with his pocket rule, measuring and laying off diagrams,
for three hours, until the outer edges of London began to appear.
Looking up suddenly, he spoke, “Almost in, aren’t we? Well, I’ll put my
work away, and we’ll discuss our future plans for a few minutes.”

As we rolled into Waterloo station, our discussion ended. “We’ll go
down somewhere on the Channel,” said Tom, “set up the wave-measuring
machine, and see what we can do with that. It’s our best card, and
we’ll work there till Dorothy comes. We’ve got to hang round here till
she arrives, anyway.”

“We certainly have,” said I, and my heart leaped exultantly at the
thought of her coming.




CHAPTER X


Once more I sought the booking office at Euston.

“The Express has left Prince’s Stage at Liverpool, sir. Will be here in
about three hours now, sir,” was the response to my question.

I turned away, dismissed my cab, and started out through the great
pillars of the entrance. Three hours more and Dorothy would be here.
Tom and I, with the wave-measuring machine, had taken the first boat,
which happily left the evening after our interview with Ordway.
Dorothy, following a week later, had arrived at Liverpool and was
speeding to London. It had been hard to wait the week, filled as it
had been with work, but it seemed as if these last hours would never
go. Three hours to wait! I had paced the platform of Euston for two
already, and I walked out now towards Bloomsbury, passing slowly
through its pleasant squares, and watching the foliage behind their
guarding railings. Before I knew it, I was in front of the British
Museum, and I glanced at my watch. “As good a place to wait as any,”
I said to myself, and I crossed the courtyard and started up the
steps. Just then a man, hurrying out, slipped at the top of the stone
steps and fell heavily, striking his head and lying unconscious where
he fell. As it chanced, I was the only spectator, save for a single
policeman, and, as I hurried forward, I noticed a Theta Sigma Rho
fraternity pin on the waistcoat of the fallen man. I reached him first,
the policeman coming up a second later, and together we raised the
unconscious form and carried the man to an office, where we placed
him on a lounge. I read the name on the reverse of his pin. “E. S.
Hamerly.” As he lay there, breathing heavily, I watched him with that
interest which a fellow countryman, and far more than that, a member of
one’s own fraternity, in distress in a foreign land inspires. He was a
clean-cut young fellow, neatly but very simply clad, and I noticed a
red acid stain on his sleeve. I had time for no more, for the doctor
came hurrying in.

“Only a scalp wound,” he said, as he made his brief examination. “I can
bring him round in a minute.”

A vigorous application of cold water, an aromatic to his nose, and
the patient sneezed and opened his eyes. As he gazed around I stepped
forward.

“Mr. Hamerly,” I said, “I’m Orrington of Columbia. I’m a Theta Sigma
Rho man, myself, as I see you are. You’ve had a nasty fall, but you’re
coming out all right. I’m going to see you home.”

Hamerly smiled rather wanly. “I don’t feel very energetic,” he said.
“I’d be mighty glad to have you. I’m in lodgings up on Half-Moon
Street.”

The doctor broke in. “That’s enough talking for the present. Let me fix
up your head and you can go all right.”

While the doctor bandaged Hamerly’s head, I signalled a hansom, and in
a few minutes we were speeding off to Half-Moon Street.

Too much shaken up by his fall for conversation, Hamerly lay back
against the cushions till we reached his lodgings, but he arrived
there without seeming any worse for the trip. I saw him safely to bed,
promised him an early visit, and left a call for a near-by doctor.
Then I looked at my watch. Barely time to reach Dorothy’s train. “To
Euston. Rush!” I cried to the cabby, and away we sped. Just as the
train came puffing in, I reached the platform, and there was Dorothy’s
dear head leaning from the window of her car. The black old station was
transformed as she stepped lightly to the platform, followed by her
maid. She came towards me with both hands outstretched. “Oh, Jim, it’s
good to see you. Where’s Tom?”

“Down at Folkestone,” I answered. “We’ll join him there as soon as
you’ve had a night’s sleep.”

“Why wait for that?” asked Dorothy energetically. “It’s only twelve
now. We can run down there after lunch. Where are our rooms?”

“At the Savoy,” I said. “Suppose you send your maid up there with the
luggage, and we go up in a hansom.”

It took scarcely ten minutes to load the maid and the luggage in a
four-wheeler and join Dorothy. As we swung out through the gates,
she spoke with a long breath. “It seems good to be back in London
again, even with war so near and with so much ahead of us. Now,
tell me everything that’s happened since you came over to London
from Portsmouth. I got your letter at Queenstown telling about your
experiences on the bottom of the sea. How I wish I could have been
there. But never mind that now. Tell me all you’ve done in the last
four days.”

I settled down to my task. “Tom and I came over safely, as you already
know, from our wire at Queenstown. We decided that ‘the man’ would
be working in the Channel and, after some discussion, settled on
Folkestone as the base from which to work the wave-measuring machine.
We took the apparatus down there three days ago, got a big room and set
it up. I chartered a yacht.”

“What did you do that for?” interrupted Dorothy.

“So we could run down ‘the man’ if he was on the sea. We decided,
coming over, that he was more likely to do his experimenting on water
than on land, and Tom thinks he can get him from his experimental
waves.”

“I see,” said Dorothy. “Go ahead.”

“After chartering the yacht, I helped Tom all I could till last night,
when I came up to London to meet you. Tom expects to get the machine
set up to-day. That’s about all.”

“How is the war progressing?” asked Dorothy. “Everybody on board the
liner was greatly afraid it would begin before we got across, and that
we might be captured, but we reached Liverpool all right.”

“Nothing’s happened yet,” I answered. “But I think it’s coming, may
come any minute. They say that the Emperor has refused to see visitors,
since the Kaiserin Luisa went down, and I think the government expects
war immediately. They’re mobilizing rapidly on both sides.”

“Then there certainly isn’t a minute to lose in reaching Folkestone,”
said Dorothy decisively. “We’ll just stop for lunch and go right down.”

It was a day of wonders. Since the night when we had searched for
Joslinn, Dorothy and I had never been alone together. The ride from
the station to the Savoy was a glorified pilgrimage; the lunch, as we
sat looking out on the embankment bathed in sunshine, was a celestial
repast, even the time of waiting in the hotel for Dorothy to condense
her luggage, and make ready for the coming trip, was a delight. But
best of all was the trip down to Folkestone. The guard smiled widely at
the golden sovereign which saved the compartment for us, and the porter
heaped attentions on us for his tip, but the value which they purchased
was priceless. Two hours of speeding through the lovely English country
in a tête-à-tête with my lady.

All too soon came Folkestone, and there beside the train was Tom. “I’ve
got him,” he whispered excitedly. “Hurry up, it’s just time to take
another reading.”

As we bowled along through the old streets, Tom hurriedly told us of
his experience. “He’s experimenting constantly now,” he said. “He sent
off some waves yesterday afternoon about four o’clock, just after I
got the apparatus going; sent off some more about ten, and some this
morning, a little after nine. They’re all from some place out in the
Channel, over towards the French coast. They’re from practically the
same spot, so I got everything ready for an instant departure on
our little boat, and the moment we hear from him again, we’ll start
straight for him.”

Dorothy’s eyes sparkled with excitement. “I’m so glad I got here. I
wouldn’t miss the end for anything.”

“But you’re not going with us on the yacht?” I said anxiously.

“Of course she’s not,” said Tom gruffly.

“Well, I am,” said Dorothy, “and that’s all there is about it.”

Tom and I broke out in a jumble of incoherent objections, which Dorothy
met with smiling assurance.

“You think ‘the man’ may be desperate if we find him,” she said. “Well,
I don’t for a minute believe he will be. He’s doing too big a thing to
have anything against ordinary people, and if something did happen,
you’d need me to protect you.”

Ten minutes more of the drive brought ten minutes more of heated
discussion, but it brought us no victory, and the end of the debate
came when Tom gave in with the brotherly remark: “Well, go your own
confounded, obstinate way then.” To which Dorothy, as calm and smiling
as a summer morn, responded simply, “I shall.”

“Here’s our place,” said Tom, as we rattled up to a house which
displayed on the stairs to the second story a sign, “Dancing Academy.”
“This was the only room we could get that had incandescent wiring, and
that was long enough to hold the scale of the Denckel apparatus,” he
explained to Dorothy, as we crossed the bare floor to the apparatus,
standing in front of the chairs whereon was wont to repose the beauty
and chivalry of Folkestone, at the “assemblies” advertised below.

“The machine is working beautifully. Look at this.” He threw the
switch, lighted the lamp, and lowered the green shade. The belt of
metal had revolved scarcely a minute, and Tom was pulling down the last
shade, as the beam fluttered and the machine stopped. “Just in time,”
said Dorothy delighted. “Hurry up, Tom.” The old inherent passion of
the chase was on us all, and in less than twenty minutes, the last
figures made, Tom and Dorothy compared their work.

“Just there,” said Tom, making a cross with his pencil on a point on
the French coast some ten miles up from Boulogne. “Come on, don’t waste
a minute. It’s practically a straight run across the channel.”

Ten minutes brought us aboard the little yacht and ten minutes more saw
us steaming out of the harbor. Dorothy was with us. Further discussion
had been useless.

“Not much like the Black Arrow,” I said, as we came out rather slowly
into the Channel.

“You wait till she gets speeded up,” said Tom. “She can go. I proved
that yesterday.”

He was right. Once out into the Channel, our speed gradually
increased, till we were making good progress. In an hour we sighted the
French coast from the little bridge, and Tom, beside the skipper, was
making for the cross on the chart.

“We’ll sight her, if she hasn’t gone directly away from us, inside of
fifteen minutes,” Tom said. Dorothy stood beside the wheel, ranging the
whole horizon with her binoculars. She had thrown aside her hat, and
a loosened tress of her hair flew lightly across my face as I stood
beside her.

“Two sails off that point,” she announced, in a few moments. “They look
more like those tubs of French fishing-boats than a yacht,” she said
shortly. “Look at them, Jim.”

She handed her glasses to me. The horizon, for five miles in any
direction from the point where we were heading, showed but the two
sails she had mentioned, and we headed directly for them. As we neared
them, we saw that Dorothy’s eyes had proved true. They were wide,
clumsy, fishing craft, such as sail from the harbor of Boulogne,
or hang in miniature as votive offerings before the altars of the
cathedral. Undecked and open, they could hold no complicated apparatus.
Their crews were sturdy, jerseyed fishermen, who stared in open-mouthed
wonder, as our yacht came up alongside the first, and a volley of
questions came in rapid French from the beautiful girl on the bridge.

With instinctive courtesy, every sailor on either boat removed his cap
as she spoke, and the skipper gave answer in slow, deeply considered
words. “No, we have seen no yacht except your own. Hein! is it not so?”
he turned to the sailors.

A chorus of affirmatives came back. There had been no other vessel off
this point save the Virginie of their own town, (an expressive thumb
pointed to the other boat,) for four, five hours. They would surely
have seen it if there had been. Tom consulted his chart and consulted
our own skipper. It was the very spot. With knitted brow, he ordered
the boat headed for the other fishermen. I pulled a half sovereign from
my pocket.

“Buvez avec moi, mes garçons,” I cried, and flung the coin into the
fishing boat. A chorus of “Merci’s” followed our path.

The other boat gave no better results. Its sailors had seen nothing,
and we ran back to the point whence the waves had come, for a brief
consultation. As we gazed on the quiet water just tinged with the last
of the sunset, I spoke.

“There’s only one explanation, if the wave-measuring machine is
correct. He’s down on the bottom in a submarine, or he was there when
he sent off those waves.”

“I’m afraid that’s right, Jim,” said Tom. “If I could only see down
there. I wonder how deep it is.” He called to the captain. “Take a
sounding here, will you please?”

We hurried forward and watched the line overboard. Fathom after fathom
disappeared up to the very end. “It’s more than a hundred twenty
fathom, sir,” reported the captain.

“No use, then,” said Tom. “Go right back to Folkestone. We’ll have a
couple more tries to-morrow,” he went on. “But, frankly, I’m afraid it
won’t do any good. To find a submarine in these waters would be worse
than finding a needle in a haystack.”

It was a rather gloomy little party that landed at Folkestone that
night. We had seemed so near success. Yet there was one alleviation. I
had dreaded bringing Dorothy into danger, and I had had a most uneasy
feeling as to the possible result of the meeting with a man inspired
with so fixed and fearful a purpose as he whom we sought. Much as I
desired the completion of my search, I could not therefore feel too
complete a sense of regret at the two failures which we encountered
on the Channel the next day. The man was in the Channel sea. He was
experimenting with his apparatus daily under its waves. We could be
sure of that, but he could not be reached, so we finally gave in and
returned to London.

All the way up in the train, Dorothy sat in deep thought, but no result
came from her meditations, and we returned to the Savoy without a ray
of light as to our next move.

The next morning I woke with fresh courage. We had gained so much and
so unexpectedly, that I felt convinced we must gain more. I found a
table in the dining-room, and waited there for Tom and Dorothy, who
shortly appeared. We breakfasted gaily. The morning sun shone brightly
on the little park below the window and on the Thames, flowing slowly
beyond. The peaceful scene looked little like war, but the papers
before us were full of dire forebodings. The German Emperor still
sulked. Movements of army corps and of battleships were the main
part of their story. Despite the columns filled with martial things,
every newspaper had at least one reference to the man who was trying
to stop all war, and in more than one of them was a word as to the
double danger of the fleets, who faced not only a foreign foe, but
annihilation at the hands of this unseen destroyer. As we finished
breakfast, Dorothy asked, “What are you boys going to do this morning?”

“I must go down to the city to get some money,” I replied.

“I think I’ll do the same,” remarked Tom.

“We’ll all go together, then,” said Dorothy.

As we passed out into the courtyard, I raised my stick for a cab, but
Dorothy stopped me. “Let’s go down on top of a bus. I haven’t been on
one since I landed, and we’re in no hurry.”

Up the winding stair we climbed, and Tom and Dorothy found a seat
beside the driver, while I was just behind. Down the Strand into Fleet
Street we passed, through the crowds before the bulletins, watching
anxiously for the message which should spell “War.” At the top of
Ludgate Hill, just by St. Paul’s, came a block, one of those hopeless
tangles which so completely ties up London traffic. Another bus stood
just ahead, and I read off the big advertisements which lined its top.
“Alhambra Radium Ballet,” I read. “There’s a scientific scheme for you
people. What is a radium ballet, anyway?”

“Oh, they cover the girls’ dresses with phosphorescent paint, and turn
out the lights,” said Tom. “It’s an old idea. They had them ten years
ago.”

Dorothy turned suddenly. “That’s what we want. It’s the very thing
we’ve been hunting for, the new clue. We’ve never run that down, at
all.”

Tom and I followed slowly her quick intuition. “What new clue?” I asked.

“The phosphorescent paint clue,” answered Dorothy energetically. “‘The
man’ wrote his first message with a peculiar type of phosphorescent
ink. He must have been working with it for some time. If we can only
find anybody that knows about that kind of paint, we might find out
something more definite about him. It’s the best clue we have, anyway.”

“But how will you get hold of the people who know about phosphorescent
paint?” said Tom. “I think you’re in the blindest alley yet.”




CHAPTER XI


As the horses started up, Dorothy refuted Tom’s statement indignantly.
“It isn’t a blind alley. It’s a good clue. We’ve run down practically
every other line, and now we may as well try this. Everything points to
the belief that ‘the man’ is a scientist of no slight ability. Whether
he or some one else discovered his high power radio-active force, he
must be a good man, or he wouldn’t be able to use it. Now, it seems
probable to me that he was working with phosphorescent ink simply
because it was the nearest at hand. A man engaged in research like that
would be likely to have at least one assistant. I propose to find that
assistant.”

“I’d like to see you do it,” said Tom doubtingly. “How would you go to
work?”

“I’d advertise,” said Dorothy.

“Advertise,” remarked Tom. “Here’s the way to do it,--‘Wanted, the
assistant of the man who is trying to stop all war.’”

“Of course not, stupid,” said Dorothy impatiently. “We’ll advertise for
a man who has had some experience in making phosphorescent ink. That’s
the line to work on. Don’t you see that since phosphorescent paint acts
best with such energy as is given by radio-active substances, that he’s
likely to have been using it. There’s such a close relation between
phosphorescence and radioactivity, that a man might be working with
both.”

“But where will you advertise?” I said. “How can you tell where the
man has worked? How can you tell his nationality? I think he is an
American, but no one can tell.”

“If you mean Dick Regnier,” exclaimed Dorothy, her eyes flashing,
“you’re wrong. I’ve known him for years, and I know he is not the man.
It takes just a touch of insanity that Dick never had, to do what
‘the man’ is doing. ‘The man’ must be practically a monomaniac on the
subject.”

The bus stopped just as the Bank came in sight. Dorothy turned squarely
in her seat and faced me. The seats around us happened to be empty. She
looked at my somewhat guilty face and spoke emphatically.

“Jim Orrington, you don’t believe me, but it isn’t Dick Regnier.”

“Now, Dorothy,” I said, “look here. How did the letter get changed,
unless it was done by Regnier that night at your cousin’s?”

“I don’t know,” she answered.

“Oh, come now,” said Tom. “Drop it. Here’s where we get off.”

We had drawn our money and had started away, when I suddenly thought
of the mail. I turned back to the little window and asked if there
were any letters for us which had not been forwarded. A few moments
brought a big package, among them three or four bulky envelopes from
the office. Hailing a cab, we read busily as we drove back to the
Savoy. One long typewritten report I read with especial care, and
handed over to Dorothy when she had finished her mail. She looked at me
reproachfully, as she read the title. “And you never mentioned this at
all.”

“I forgot all about it,” I answered. “I started that inquiry the day I
was in prison. The night I got out, the Denckel letter came, and we’ve
been so busy ever since that I completely forgot this.”

“Let’s hear it,” said Tom.

“Just read the condensed paragraph at the top,” I said. “That tells the
whole story. You can read the rest at your leisure.” Dorothy began in
her clear voice.

“Report on Mr. Richard Regnier. Richard Regnier is the son of the late
Colonel Arthur Regnier of Savannah, Georgia. He was educated at private
schools, and at Princeton. His residence is Savannah, but he has spent
much time in England. He specialized in chemistry when in college, and
published one paper after graduation on some rare chemical compounds.
He has no regular occupation, has an independent income, and spends
most of his time in various philanthropic works. Is a member of several
organizations, such as the Peace Society, the Tuberculosis League,
etc., and of four clubs. Complete details given below. Every effort has
been made to obtain his present address, but not even his bankers know
it. The only fact concerning this which could be obtained was that he
sailed for Europe on the Hamburg-American line, the last of June, this
present year. For details of this part of the investigation, see below.”

“Well, he didn’t do it; he isn’t doing it,” said Dorothy emphatically.

“He’s got the training for it,” said Tom reflectively.

“I am sure,” began Dorothy, but I broke in.

“What’s the use of discussing it now. We can’t get hold of Regnier,
anyway, and your phosphorescent ink scheme seems the next scheme to
try. Here we are at the Temple. Let’s go to one of my friends who is a
solicitor here, and see if we can use his office as headquarters to see
the applicants.” So the discussion ended.

A brief interview with my friend, and a short debate on the best method
of procedure, brought us to certain conclusions. It was really just
as possible that the man had worked in London as anywhere else, and
we decided to advertise in six of the morning papers for three days,
asking for a man who had had some experience with phosphorescent inks,
and who was capable of assisting in a scientific examination with
regard to them. Applicants were to meet at the office of my friend in
the Middle Temple at three o’clock on the afternoon of the third day.

For two days and a half I spent my time watching the preparations for
war, and urging forward the search for Regnier. He had completely
dropped out of sight. No information of his whereabouts could be
obtained, and when we met at the Temple on the afternoon of the third
day, we were no further ahead.

At three o’clock the waiting room of the office was full, and a long
line of men extended down the stairs. The crowd bore striking witness
to the horde of unemployed seeking for even the slightest chance of
employment. My friend’s clerks were in despair, but somehow they
managed to evolve something like order from the mass, and one by one
the applicants were admitted. After the first half dozen, we saw that
they could be divided into three classes,--the men who knew nothing
about science and nothing about any kind of ink, the men who knew
something about ink but nothing about phosphorescent ink, and the men
who had been laboratory assistants to various research followers. We
divided them rapidly on this basis, and in an hour had dismissed all
the members of classes one and two. There were left some ten others who
had been assistants in research laboratories. One by one we examined
these. They had worked in various lines; the first five in chemical
researches; the last five in various physical and engineering lines.
Try as we might, we could get no information from any of them with
regard to phosphorescent ink, or with regard to any unusual work with
radio-active energy.

The last man had been dismissed and we had sat down to afternoon tea
with my friend, when we heard words in the outer office. The door
opened and a clerk entered. “There’s one man more, sir,” he said, “I
told him he was too late, but he’s quite insistent, sir. Will you care
to see him?”

“Surely,” I said, and we all went out into the outer office. A tall,
bent man with drooping mustache stood by the window. His gaunt face and
threadbare clothes, neatly brushed though they were, showed an evident
lack of prosperity.

“I ventured to insist, sir,” he said, addressing me, “as I have had
quite a little experience in phosphorescent ink. It was only a year
ago that I served in a laboratory where they were working with it, and
while I was simply working under the direction of other people, I think
I could work well along that line. I should try to do my best. I need a
place.”

This looked more like the real thing. I waved towards Tom. He could run
this end of the inquiry better than I.

“What’s your name?”

“George Swenton.”

“Where did you have your experience?” questioned Tom.

“With Doctor Heidenmuller, in his private research laboratory,”
answered the man.

“What training have you had?”

“Not much. Only a few courses at the University of London. I was only
the second assistant. I worked with Doctor Heidenmuller for four years,
until he died six months ago. I have had no place since, sir.”

“Did your employer do anything with radio-active work?”

“Yes, sir. He died that way. He was killed, paralysed, you might say,
while working with something in a locked room. He always did that work
in a locked room.”

“What were the circumstances of his death?” asked Tom. The man
hesitated and looked up somewhat fearfully.

“I don’t see what that has to do with phosphorescent ink,” he said.
“The police went all into the matter of his death, and they said it was
just death by paralysis.” He stopped and shut his mouth hard. Dorothy
broke in.

“Mr. Swenton, here is the state of affairs. I don’t think my brother
has made it quite plain. We are more interested in Dr. Heidenmuller’s
radio-active work than in his phosphorescent paint. We have no question
of you at all. We do not want to know anything which is not entirely
right for us to know, but we do want to know all you feel you can
rightly tell us of his work. I feel sure that my brother will be ready
to employ you, if you can show that you have done this, and that you
can do what he wants.”

The man’s face cleared. Dorothy’s words were more convincing than
evidence. He reached into his pockets and drew forth a bunch of papers,
which he gave to Tom, who rapidly ran through them.

“They’re all right,” he said, handing them back. “Now, if I give you
twenty pounds a month for two months, will that be all right?”

A dull red rose in the man’s face as his eyes lighted. “It will mean
everything to me, sir,” he said. “I’ve got a wife and a boy.”

Tom drew out his purse. “Here’s ten pounds to clinch the bargain,” and
he handed him two five pound notes.

“I appreciate that more than I can say,” said the man, the tears
welling up into his eyes with emotion. “Now, what did you want to know?”

“First about Dr. Heidenmuller’s apparatus, and then about his death.”

“I’m afraid I can’t tell you much of the apparatus. I never even saw
it. It was in an inner room to which the doctor had the only key. I
never was in the room till the day we broke down the door and took him
out dead. There was no apparatus there then. It must have been removed.”

“How did the room look?” asked Dorothy.

“It was all bare. Nothing in it at all, except the wooden chair where
he sat and a wooden table.”

“How about the walls and ceiling?”

“They were all of wood.”

“How about the locks on the door and windows?”

“That was a funny thing. They were of wood, too, though he had an iron
key.”

“What did the doctor have in his pockets?”

“Four five-pound notes, no change, and his watch was gone. There was
nothing in his watch pocket except a watch crystal. His keys were gone,
too, and only the ribbon of his watch was left lying on the floor.”

“What did the doctors say about his death?”

“Straight paralysis, they said. I had been away for three days. He was
around the laboratory for one day after I left, and the day after that
he must have died. They said death was instantaneous.”

“Did the doctor leave any family?”

“None.”

“What became of his papers?”

“Nobody knows. He had scarcely any friends. His property went to a
niece in Germany, and she came over to hunt for papers, but she found
none.”

“What became of the other assistant?”

“He went back to Germany. He knew nothing more than I did, however.”

“Did the doctor have any friends who came to see him?”

“Very few. There was one American who came to see him now and then. I
never knew his name or where he came from, nor did I know the name of
the two or three German friends he had.”

“Anything else you think of?” asked Tom.

“Nothing else, I’m afraid,” answered Swenton.

Tom rose from his chair and paced up and down the room, his hands in
his trousers pockets, his coat flung back. As he walked, Swenton,
watching him, uttered an exclamation.

“I can tell you one thing about the American,” he said. “He wore a
peculiar shaped pin on his waistcoat, such as you wear on your fob.”

Tom pulled up his fob with its Theta Sigma Rho pin. “There’s a good
clue, anyway,” he said. “He must be a Theta Sigma Rho man.”

We could get nothing more from Swenton and, after directing him to call
at the Savoy the next morning, we sent him away happy. As we came down
the narrow stairs and out of the old arched passages of the Temple,
Dorothy said, “Let’s walk up the embankment to the hotel. We can think
better that way.”

We had gone half the distance, when she stopped. “Suppose we talk it
over here,” and we stopped beside the parapet to discuss the matter.

“As I make it out,” said Tom, “Heidenmuller was the man who discovered
the secret power which has been destroying the battleships, but he
can’t be ‘the man,’ because he died before the first ship went down.
Therefore he must have passed it on to some one else who is using it,
possibly the American who was his friend, or one of the Germans. It
strikes me that the next thing to do is to find an American in London
who wears a Theta Sigma Rho pin.”

Instantly I startled the peaceful calm of the embankment, and made
myself an object of suspicion to the neighboring bobby, by leaping in
the air and clapping my hands together.

“Hamerly, by all that’s holy!” I cried. “You remember that fellow I
took home that night you arrived, Dorothy?”

She nodded, her eyes gleaming with interest.

“He’s one of our men, and he had an acid stain on his coat. I’ll wager
you he’s the American. I know where he lives and I’ve been up to see
him once, but he was out. I’ll go up there right after dinner.”

“Do you think he’s ‘the man’?” asked Tom in excitement.

“I don’t see how he could be,” I said slowly. “‘The man’ was working
in the Channel, when he was in the British Museum. But he’s surely the
next man to interview.”

By eight I was in a hansom speeding towards Half-Moon Street. “Was Mr.
Hamerly in?” He was, and met me half way down the stairs. “This is very
good of you, Orrington,” he said. “I was very sorry to miss your last
call.”

For some time we talked of various things, of college days, and of
affairs at home. He had come over as a Rhodes scholar and, having a
little money left him while at Oxford, had gone on in London after
graduation, leading a life of quiet study. As we talked, I sized my
companion up. “A trifle grave but, after all, a sane, sterling fellow,”
I decided, and I put my errand directly to him.

“You knew Dr. Heidenmuller,” I said abruptly.

“Yes, poor old chap,” he said calmly. “How did you happen to run across
him?”

“I didn’t know him personally,” I said, “but I knew a man who did know
him. One of our own men, Tom Haldane of Columbia, who is very greatly
interested in the radio-active work which Dr. Heidenmuller was carrying
on before his death, is here with me.”

Hamerly’s face filled with eagerness. His whole attitude changed. “Did
Haldane know what he was doing?” he asked breathlessly.

“Not exactly,” I said.

“Well if he knows anything about it, I believe he knows one of the
greatest things in modern science. The Doctor never told me anything
about it, but I went into that room the day he was taken out dead, and
ever since that time I’ve felt that he had found a force greater than
anything yet obtained, and that that force killed him.” He paused.
“I’ve never said that to anybody else, but Haldane is the man of all
others to know it, and you might tell him that from me. He may be
able to use it somehow. I can’t. I tried my best to get hold of some
clue concerning it after Heidenmuller’s death, but it was absolutely
useless. Do you think that Haldane has enough data to work it out?”

“Frankly, I don’t know,” I said.

“Except for two things, I should have said the secret died with him,”
said Hamerly slowly.

I bent forward hanging on every word.

“I’ve never spoken of either, but,”--he paused, “you know this man who
is trying to stop all war?”

I nodded.

“Well, from the way Heidenmuller’s room looked, and the way the things
in his pockets were left, I’ve wondered if the man had not his secrets.
Do you know,” he said, leaning forward, “there were no eyelets in his
shoes when he was found. The crimps were in the leather of the strings,
but the metal ends were gone. The lenses of his spectacles, without
any mounting, were lying on the floor. The very filling of his teeth
had gone. Why couldn’t a battleship disappear into its elemental parts
the same way, all its living contents paralyzed by the shock, dying
instantly and sinking below the waves. I’ve wondered more than once if
the government sent down divers in Portsmouth harbor and if they did,
what they found.”

There was just one thing to do. He held as much as we did of the
secret. Perhaps he knew more. From beginning to end, I told the whole
story of our search. As I went on, he grew more and more excited. As I
paused towards the end, he broke in.

“The second thing fits in here, the reason why I believe the secret
might not be lost. One day as I went into the laboratory, the Doctor’s
assistant told me that he was in the inner room, but had left word for
me to wait. I was extremely curious for no one had ever entered that
inner room to my knowledge. The door opened at last, and a tall, dark
man, an American I should say, came out of that closed room with the
doctor. I never saw him before or since. Now, is he the man who got the
secret, and with it is trying to stop all war?”

I was out of my seat with excitement. “I believe he is. Would you know
him if you saw his photograph?”

“Surely,” said Hamerly.

I rose to go.

“Hold on,” exclaimed Hamerly, “I haven’t told you half yet.”

“Go on,” I said eagerly, seating myself once more.

“That first day, after I had made a rough examination, I started to go
over the inner room inch by inch. At first I thought it was perfectly
insulated by wood. There wasn’t a piece of metal nor even a piece of
glass in it. Where the incandescent light came down, hung a bit of
twisted cord, without a scrap of metal remaining. There was a length of
insulating cloth, minus the wire it covered, lying on the floor. I went
round and round, hunting for metal, but I could find none. There was
a wooden shutter over the window, and no glass. I closed the door and
walked over every inch of the room, trying to find any break whatsoever
in the insulation. The only thing I could find was a faint glimmer,
where the wooden window shutter did not quite join. I went outside and
studied the place from the street. There was no appearance of anything
unusual on the wall of the laboratory, excepting that the boarded
window of the wooden room looked out like a rectangular unseeing eye.
I crossed to the sidewalk just before the laboratory, and looked up
and down the opposite wall. There was nothing unusual on that side,
save two square places, side by side on the painted wall, which looked
fresher than the wall around. I examined them more carefully, crossed
and recrossed. The two spots were almost exactly opposite the lower
end of the shuttered window where I had seen a slight chink of light,
the only place where the insulation of wood was broken. I went up the
stairs of the house opposite. It was a little tea shop. A wooden sign
leaned against the wall beside the door. I picked it up. The screw
holes and the whiter paint where the hinges had lain showed clear,
but there was no metal about it. The proprietress bustled up to take
my order and, as she saw me looking at the sign, broke into voluble
explanation. ‘I should have put the sign back in its place, sir, but
fairly didn’t dare to. It was a week come Tuesday when it fell. It’s
God’s own mercy there wasn’t somebody killed, sir. And the strangest
thing, too. I couldn’t find sight nor smell of the hinges and the
rod where it hung. It must have pulled out of the wall, and somebody
have picked up the iron, before I could get down, sir. Now isn’t that
strange, sir?’

“It had fallen the day that Heidenmuller died.

“I went back into the laboratory and hunted over every square inch of
it, but I found nothing. I stood there puzzling. If there had been
some power that had killed Heidenmuller, there must have been some
material substance in which it was kept. I had made the most careful
inquiries about the things on his person and in the room. No one could
tell me anything. Swenton and Griegen, the two assistants, were neither
of them there, but the first one who had entered the room when the
doctor’s body was found was a sharp-faced lad who acted as janitor. I
had questioned him thoroughly, as I thought, but I resolved to see if
he did not know more. I went to him again, and a lucky inspiration came
to me. Holding a sovereign in my hand I remarked casually, ‘If there is
any little personal memento of the doctor left, I should like very much
to have it.’ The narrow eyes of the lad gleamed. He thrust his hand
into his pocket, and drew out what was apparently a leather cigarette
case, snatched the sovereign, and handed me the case. ‘Found h’it h’on
the floor, h’after we took ’im h’out,’ he mumbled. ‘H’it’s the h’only
think was there.’”

Hamerly rose as he spoke and walked to his desk. I followed, my heart
pulsating with great leaps. He took from a drawer what seemed to be a
pigskin cigarette case, cut in half. Hamerly held the two sections out
on his hand. At the top was a queerly constructed valve,--the case was
lined with a black substance that looked like rubber.

“I believe,” said Hamerly gravely, “that in this case there was
some terrifically powerful substance, which killed Heidenmuller and
destroyed all the metal in the wooden room, by escaping through the
accidentally opened valve. I believe the man who is trying to stop all
war uses the same dread agent. I believe, once the substance escapes
and does its work, that it turns to a harmless gas, as hydrogen, once
it has been exploded with oxygen, forms harmless water, or as the
carbon of coal, which has blazed when united with the oxygen of the air
becomes, after that union, inert carbon dioxide. You know, now, all I
know. I’ve done all I could with it,” he ended, “Take it to Haldane.”

Dazed with the story, I could only thank him and take the case. We
parted with a word of good will, and assurance of secrecy on his side.




CHAPTER XII


I threw up my curtain next morning to find London settling down into a
sea of fog. Already the Thames was wholly hidden, and the water side of
the embankment showed only faint, twinkling lights, just on the point
of complete extinguishment. The caped policeman, the hurrying butcher’s
boy, the laborers and the charwomen passing through the garden below,
had all completely lost their individuality and became, in place of
common London types, misty twentieth century Niobes. But dismal though
it was without, my spirits were cheerful enough within as I started
down to meet Tom and Dorothy.

We were half through breakfast when Hamerly’s card was brought in,
to be followed a few moments later by the man himself. I looked with
delighted interest at the involuntary start that he gave when he met
Dorothy. How I wish I might rightly describe her as she stood there,
lighting by her very presence the gray interior of the dining-room,
shrouded as it was by the “London particular.” Everything else was
gloom, save in the circle where Dorothy gave the radiance of her
presence. Hamerly’s silent tribute was no more than she exacted
from all who met her. Again and again I marvelled at my audacity in
believing I might have this incarnation of youth, of power, and beauty
for my own.

Such thoughts raced through my head as I sat watching the swift
interchange of question and answer between Tom, Dorothy and Hamerly. In
response to their inquiries, Hamerly related the story he had told me
the day before, and as he ended, asked, “What are you going to do next?
How are you planning to use your man Swenton?”

Dorothy answered for Tom and myself. “We are going straight to Dr.
Heidenmuller’s laboratory, taking Swenton along. I want to have the
whole scene before my eyes to see what can be made out of it. We should
be very glad to have you come with us, Mr. Hamerly.”

Tom bent towards me with a look of mock anguish on his brow. “How I had
hoped for a peaceful Sunday morning,” he said, in a low aside, “and
now we’ve got to plunge out into a nasty fog, and chase all over this
benighted city. Never mind, I might have known. I never can have my own
way.”

Despite his plaint, Tom was the first one ready, as, clothed in
raincoat and slouch hat, our little party gathered under the shelter of
the glass awning inside the court.

The massive dignity of the carriage porter, shrouded in a white
glistening rubber coat, loomed bulkier than ever, as, with an
elephantine grace, he whistled shrilly twice. Out of a dim background
two hansoms dashed into the circle of light where the arcs of the
entrance fought bravely against the encroaching fog.

“I’m going with Mr. Hamerly,” said Tom. “You take Dorothy in the other
hansom, Jim, and drive straight. We’ll pick up Swenton on the way. Give
the address, will you, Hamerly?”

“Old Jewry, third alley, this side of Gresham Street,” said Hamerly,
and the cabbies nodded.

Dorothy stepped lightly in before I could lend my aid. I followed, the
porter closed the curtaining doors, pulled up the window, and we were
off, embarked on a sea of fog. As I looked out, I thought I saw Tom
speaking to our driver, but I could not be sure.

“Old Jewry,” said Dorothy dreamily. “How delightfully Dickensonian. I
haven’t an idea where it can be, and I don’t want to know. It’s much
more fun plunging off into an unknown world of adventure in the good
ship Hansom Cab.”

I happened to have a strong idea where the Old Jewry was, but some
guardian angel kept me from speaking. Never before had I possessed all
that was precious to me in life in the small capacity of a hansom cab.
Outside passed slowly by a dim neutral city, into which street lamps
cast pointed lines of light in a vain endeavor to pierce the gloom,
where ghosts, appearing suddenly under our horses feet, disappeared
quite as suddenly into the blanketing darkness, and where now and then
a motor bus came looming past us, like some high-pooped caravel of
Spain. Now and again we stopped. Now and again we crept at a foot pace
through what seemed at one and the same time an eternity of joy and a
fleeting moment of happiness. Dorothy lay back against the cushioned
corner, taking in the experience to the utmost. We spoke but seldom.
I proffered no suggestions. It was enough for me to sit beside her,
to know the rough cloth of her tweed ulster touched my hand, to feel
through every inmost fibre of my being her dear and sweet proximity. On
and on we travelled, till at length I came to the sudden realization
that, according to all my impressions, we should have been at our
destination long before. I looked out carefully for the first time.
The fog was as dense as ever. I knew nothing of my whereabouts. Saying
no word to Dorothy, I kept on trying to pierce the wall of cloud, as a
hundred questions began to spring up in my brain. Was there something
queer in this? Was the driver lost, or was he purposely taking us in
some dangerous direction? It did not matter, anyway. As I looked at
Dorothy, I knew I could protect her against a thousand perils, and I
felt a warm glow of power, of courage springing within my soul. Just
then I saw some arc lights ahead, and I peered yet more carefully.
Under them the fog seemed less dense, and when a brass plate showed
I scanned it eagerly. “Charterhouse.” I could read no more, but that
told me where I was. In Charterhouse Square, beyond Smithfield, almost
to Clerkenwell Road. We had gone far out of our way, while I had been
dreaming. I threw up the driver’s door. “You must be out of your way,”
I cried.

“H’I couldn’t do better, sir,” came the answer. “I ’ad to come round,
I’m ’eaded straight for the h’old Jewry, sir.”

Perhaps there was a note of laughter in the man’s voice, certainly
there was nothing sinister. I recalled the glimpse I had caught of Tom
beside the cab at the Savoy, and, my qualms ceasing, I inwardly blessed
that mischievous spirit.

Dorothy looked up as I spoke. “Is it all right, Jim?” she asked.

“It is perfectly all right,” I answered, and she fell back into her
happy meditation, while I inwardly made still more remarks on her
ingenious brother. Silent and happy we went on, my mind quite at rest
now, and not in the least anxious to come to the end. The cab stopped
and the little door at the top opened with a click.

“This is the place, sir.”

I jumped out and looked around. No cab in sight. “Well,” I said to
Dorothy, “here’s a pretty go. Nobody in sight, and I don’t know which
is the house.”

Without a word, Dorothy leaned forward and whistled a single bar. Out
of the fog came the notes repeated, and a moment later across the
street came Tom.

“Oh, you’ve reached here finally, have you?” said he, a trace
sarcastically. “I thought you’d never arrive; I couldn’t imagine what
kept you.”

As he spoke, I heard a sort of choked gasp from the top of the hansom,
but fortunately Dorothy’s suspicions were not aroused.

“It hasn’t seemed so very long,” she answered simply, to which Tom
responded, “Oh, really, hasn’t it?” as he took her arm to lead her
across the street. He called back to our cabby as we left, “Drive
forward a little, and you’ll find a sort of shelter where you can wait.
The other cab’s there.”

“Right, sir,” came the reply, and we heard the slow movement of his
disappearing wheels, as we three were left in the ocean of fog.

“Swenton’s hunting up the caretaker,” said Tom. “Hamerly and I have
been waiting for him to come back. The old rooms are locked up tight.”

We found Hamerly in a vestibule where a single gas lamp flickered, and,
as we waited, we fell to talking in low tones. The mist seemed to
bring our voices to a minor key. Perhaps ten minutes had passed, when
the door opened, and Swenton entered, accompanied by a man in a coarse
ticking apron.

“This is the caretaker, sir,” he began, bowing to Dorothy and me. “He
refused to let me in to get my things. Says the laboratory was left
after Dr. Heidenmuller’s death to another chemist, a gentlemen who
bought all the doctor’s stuff from the heirs. He was there, off and
on, for a little while, but he went away quite a long time ago,--went
one night suddenly and never came back. This man says the agents won’t
allow anybody in. I brought him here, so you could talk to him if you
wished.”

The caretaker stood silent and sullen as Swenton spoke, his hands deep
in the front pockets of his apron.

“I do want to speak with him,” said Tom briefly. “Come here,” and he
led the way apart, the caretaker following. A moment’s conversation was
broken only by a golden clink, accompanied by the jingle of keys, after
which the caretaker disappeared, and Tom turned back to us.

“I have here,” he said mysteriously, “a bunch of keys which I strangely
found on the floor in the rear of this hall. Suppose we ascend to the
top floor and see if they will work there.”

Dorothy’s face was clouded as Tom came up to the spot where we were
standing a little apart, Hamerly and Swenton had already started up
the stairs. “I’m not sure that you are doing right in this, Tom,” said
Dorothy swiftly, in a low voice. “I don’t like to bribe a servant to
let us into a place where we don’t belong.”

Tom’s face became serious in a minute. “I don’t like it either,
Dorothy,” he answered gravely, “but I’m going to do it. Do you remember
the little German middy lying down at the bottom? As long as the man
who is trying to stop all war is at large there are thousands of men in
hourly peril. I honestly believe we are the only ones who can run the
man down. I am convinced we shall be wholly justified in such action.”

Dorothy stood for a moment in silent thought. “I think you are right,
Tom,” she said quietly. “In this case I hope and believe the end will
justify the means. We must find ‘the man.’ Go ahead.”

Stumbling through the darkness, we reached the top, where the flame
of a match showed a strong oak door with two Yale locks upon it. Tom
had the keys in immediately and threw the door open. Once within,
Swenton passed with accustomed step to the wall, turned a switch, and
incandescents lighted the whole place.

We were in a sort of anteroom, with desks and chairs. “The outer
office,” said Swenton briefly. We passed through an inner door. “The
main laboratory,” remarked Swenton. This was similar to any other
laboratory. A good sized motor generator in one corner, covered by
a rubber sheet, a couple of tile-topped tables, a set of shelves on
one side, filled with labelled reagent bottles, a set of glass cases,
supported on a base filled with drawers, on the other. In the cabinets
were glass ware and apparatus of various sorts. Tom started for the
case, but Dorothy laid a restraining hand on his arm.

“Wait till we have seen it all. Then we’ll go over the whole, piece by
piece.”

Tom nodded, and we went on. There were three doors on the opposite
side of the wall. Swenton passed to the first and opened it. “The
storeroom,” he explained. Within were wooden cases of glassware,
large carboys of acid, glass tubing on racks and wire on spools. In
one corner was apparently a hospital for broken or disused pieces of
apparatus. We turned from this to the second door. “The balance room,”
said Swenton, as he threw open the portal. Three balances in polished
wood and shining glass met our eyes. There was nothing else in the
room. Swenton opened a third door. “The spectroscope room,” he said.
“Beyond is the doctor’s private laboratory.” A big piece of apparatus
on the table was covered with a green cloth. Beyond was a wooden
door. Despite myself, I felt a queer, nervous tremor pass over my
frame, as I looked at the commonplace wooden panels, behind which Dr.
Heidenmuller had sat dead, killed by the same mysterious power which
had slain the men I had seen lying quietly at the bottom of Portsmouth
Harbor. Tom and Hamerly were as keen as hounds on a scent, Swenton
interested but more indifferent, Dorothy pale, her eyes glittering with
excitement. Hamerly reached the door first, tried it and it swung back.
The incandescent had not been turned on in the spectroscope room, and
the only light which entered was the golden lane, which came through
from the main laboratory. It seemed like a stage setting. The light
fell on a heavy wooden table and a couple of Windsor chairs. The rest
was but faintly outlined.

A moment’s pause on the threshold, as if we expected to meet some
horror, we knew not what, and then we rushed in together. There was
nothing to be seen. Wood panelled walls; windows sealed by wooden
shutters; the wooden table and the two wooden chairs; that was all. We
stood there silent, until Tom broke the quiet.

“Nothing to do but to Sherlock Holmes it,” he said. “We have all day to
run this thing down. Swenton, there’s a piece of apparatus here that I
need. The doctor may never have had it outside his room as a whole, yet
we may find traces of it in the laboratory or the storeroom. Are you
willing to help us hunt?”

“I should be the most ungrateful man living, sir, if I were not,” said
Swenton earnestly. “I owe my wife’s life to you and Miss Haldane.” He
glanced at Dorothy.

“So that’s where you have been the last two mornings,” I whispered to
her, as Tom went on.

“I found them just coming out of great distress,” she answered simply;
“I am so glad I was able to help.”

“Now,” cried Tom, “let’s sit down to another counsel of war. Come out
into the outer laboratory and we’ll talk it all over.”

The drawn shades, the bright gleam of the laboratory lamps reflected
back from polished tile and cabinet door, gave a distinctly cheerful
aspect to the scene as we settled down.

“I have been thinking this matter over carefully for some time,” began
Hamerly, in his rather careful tones, once we were seated, “and if you
do not object I should like to present my theories.”

“Go right ahead,” said Tom.

Hamerly went on somewhat thoughtfully. “I think you are wrong in saying
we ought to follow the methods of Sherlock Holmes. We ought rather to
follow Dupin, Poe’s detective, the man who preceded Sherlock Holmes.
Try to reason out what the doctor would have on hand with regard to
the power, and where he would have it. Try to analyze the action of his
brain, rather than hunt for minute data. Let’s see what we know about
Dr. Heidenmuller. He was a German of the most typical student type.
That means he would never do anything without putting it down on paper.
He had every desire to keep what he was doing from those around him.
That is evident from the fact that Swenton never knew anything about
the interior of this room. If the doctor made notes, as I believe he
must have done, he would have wanted them within reach. So he must have
had them in this room. He was a brilliant scientist, therefore he would
not by preference have used any of the ordinary methods of concealment.
His notes and apparatus were likely to take up a comparatively large
amount of space, so that we are impelled to the definite conclusion
that there is a concealed closet somewhere in that inner chamber. If
we could take the time to remove the whole of the walls, and could get
permission to do so, we could, I believe, find the hiding place, but
that would involve time, expense, and running down the people who at
present control the place and own the apparatus. I strongly question
whether that would be worth while.”

“No,” said Tom, “I don’t believe it would. If there were any chance
of the man who has hired this place being the man we are after, I’d
say go for him at any cost, but I don’t believe there’s one chance
in a thousand that it is. He’s too sharp to stay around where Dr.
Heidenmuller died under such peculiar circumstances.”

“I agree to that,” said Hamerly.

“And I, too,” I chimed in.

Dorothy said nothing, but as I watched her, I saw the rose of her
cheeks growing deeper, and that peculiar change in her eye that showed
she had already leaped beyond the reasoning of the others and grasped
the answer by intuition. “One question first,” she began, “Mr. Swenton,
did the doctor leave the door to the spectroscope room open when he
went into his private room?”

“No,” answered Swenton slowly, “he would go into the spectroscope room,
lock that door, and then you could hear the inner door open and shut.
Sometimes he would not come out again, but I have often heard him come
out into the anteroom about three or four minutes after he went in,
stay there for a minute or two, then go in again and come out once
more. After that he would be shut up there for hours together.”

“That settles it,” cried Dorothy. “I’m sure I know how he opened his
secret closet or closets. You remember the insulated wire covering they
found, when they came in after the doctor’s death.”

We nodded eagerly.

“That was the winding of an electro-magnet. He attached it to the long
flexible cord of that incandescent light socket in the anteroom, took
it in, opened his closets, brought it out again, and went back. See if
you can find an electro-magnet in the cases or the storeroom, and we’ll
open things up.”

Scarcely were the words out of her mouth, before Swenton had hurried to
a drawer, and pulled out three small electro-magnets, all of the same
size.

“Here are the only ones I know of, in the laboratory,” he exclaimed. “I
can connect one of them with the flexible cord in a minute. We shall
want more light, though. If one of you gentlemen will get another
connector and fix it to a socket, I’ll fit the magnet. You’ll find some
connectors for that size socket in the storeroom, I’m sure.”

With four practised hands at work, it was scarce ten minutes before
an incandescent stood on the table in the inner room, while we had an
electric magnet connected to a long flexible cord which brought current
from an incandescent light socket in the next room. Dorothy stood in
the centre, once more in command.

“I believe it’s under one of those pegs,” she said. “See what’s under
them.”

Round and round the room we went, pulling at every peg that joined the
sealed walls. Under each was a nail. Tom picked up one of the pegs as
we drew it forth.

“Humph!” he cried. “Insulated by caema. That explains why the nails
were left. What a careful job this was, anyway.”

Hamerly and Swenton nodded. I started to ask what caema was, but I
was pulling on a particularly refractory peg just then and let it go.
The word stuck fast in my memory, however. It was the same one I had
seen in Tom’s book on our journey up from Portsmouth. As each peg came
out, the little electro-magnet was brought up to the hole and its
action watched. Not a nail stirred. We had gone around three sides of
the room, when Tom called out, “This peg came easily. Bring over the
magnet.”

Before I could bring the magnet within an inch of the hole, the nail
within sprang out and attached itself to the magnet, just as a needle
springs up and clings to the horseshoe magnet of a child. As it sprung,
the whole panel, four feet high and three feet across, opened on easy
hinges and swung outward, showing a small inner door. Tom gave a long,
low whistle. “Right again, sister,” he remarked. “What should we do
without you?”

The stout oak door, strong as it was, proved no obstacle to our attack,
and readily swung outward. Stooping, we peered within. Empty shelves on
one side. A row of drawers on the other. One by one we drew the drawers
from their places. Every one was empty. From top to bottom of the
recess we searched, but without avail. Finally we straightened up with
blank faces.

“There must have been something there,” said Dorothy slowly.

“Hang it,” ejaculated Tom, “I know there was. If you want to know my
real opinion, there has been somebody here ahead of us. I don’t believe
we’ll find a thing.”

We did not, and the last inspection over, we were ready to take our
leave, when Tom broke in.

“One last thing,” he said; “I want to see how that incandescent light
in the ceiling can be connected without outside metal. That reflector,
by the way, looks like clear glass, but it must have some reflecting
power.”

He jumped lightly to a chair, thence to the table, and turned to look
through the clear glass of the big hemispherical shade, which had
guarded the incandescent in the ceiling.

“Oh, I say,” he exclaimed, “here’s a most extraordinary thing.
Everything seen through this is bent double. Here’s the biggest
refraction I ever saw. Can it be the glass, or something inside of it?
This thing is hermetically sealed above. Do you know, I believe we’ve
got one solution of the mystery here.”

We all stood looking eagerly up at him, as he gazed through the globe.




CHAPTER XIII


With a quick spring, Dorothy was first on a chair, and then on the
table beside her brother. She bent to inspect the crystal hemisphere,
looked at it from various points, and then both of them began examining
the construction of the lamp shade.

“It’s hermetically sealed above?” said Tom finally, a note of inquiry
in his voice.

“It seems to be,” answered Dorothy briefly. “Tom, jump down, will you,
and let Mr. Hamerly come up here. Jim, will you and Mr. Swenton see if
you can find another lamp shade like this in the storeroom.”

We returned from our errand, bearing a duplicate of the shade which we
had found on a shelf. Dorothy, who by this time had come down from the
table where Hamerly and Tom still stood, took the shade from my hands
and held it to the light.

“This shade is nothing but ordinary glass. There’s nothing unusual
about it,” she exclaimed. “The effect of the shade up there must be due
to a gas inside.”

As Tom and Hamerly leaped from the table to inspect the shade, I
seized the opportunity to ascend, and mounting, gazed through the
hemispherical glass. A strange world met my eyes. Everything seen
through the glass was bent around at extraordinary angles. Tom’s legs,
seen below the shade, were perfectly natural and upright, but his
torso, seen through the shade, was bent like the body of a Japanese
contortionist engaged in extremest posturing. The straight line of
the door casing beyond was broken short off where the line of the
shade intersected it, and the top of the casing appeared in a wholly
different place. As I gazed, I struggled to think what common everyday
thing acted in much the same way. Eureka, I had it.

“Why, whatever is inside this globe bends everything seen through it,
something as a spoon is bent in a glass of water or an oar in a pond,”
I cried.

Hamerly looked up. “That’s about right, Orrington. Or better yet, you
could say it bends the things you see, as the hot gases rising from a
chimney bend everything behind them into wavy lines. Haven’t you ever
watched the queer waviness that shows in a wintry atmosphere above
chimneys, when you look over them?”

“Many a time,” I replied.

“Well, that’s just the same type of thing we have here. When you look
across a chimney, where hot gases from a fire are coming off, you are
looking from air through lighter gases (for such hot gases are lighter
than cold air) to cold air again. That extreme bending of light rays
that we call refraction is the reason why we hope we have a new gas.”

“If we can test the gas to find out what it is, it ought to be a big
lift in finding out what really happened,” I said, as I descended from
the table.

“That won’t be hard at all,” interrupted Dorothy. “We’ll test it
with the spectroscope in the next room. Here comes Tom now, with the
apparatus to catch and confine the gas.”

With glass tubes and air pumps, with platinum and flame, they strove
for half an hour, Tom, Hamerly, and Swenton together. Dorothy threw in
a quiet word of suggestion now and then, but the most of the time she
stood back with me. This was a matter for experts, and left nothing for
me to do. As we waited, I asked Dorothy two questions. “Where do you
think the gas came from? Has it been here since Heidenmuller’s death?”

“I think it must have been,” answered Dorothy. “If, as I imagine, we
have an unknown gas here, it is probably one of the products left
behind from the metal destroyed by the terrific force used by the man.
When the substance that gave the force, energy, or whatever you call
it, escaped through the broken valve of the cigarette case, this gas
was formed from the changed metal and, as it was lighter than the air,
some of it rose and filled the shade, the rest floated upward and out
through some crevice. When the man destroyed the Alaska or any of the
other vessels, the same thing probably occurred--the metal of the ship
changed to a gas which floated up into the air with extreme rapidity.
The gas must be to air as oil is to water, that is, it can’t diffuse
or mix with it, any more than oil can mix with water. Otherwise it
wouldn’t have stayed all these months in the lamp shade.”

Just then Tom came towards us with a glass tube, a foot long and an
inch or two wide, in his hand. In each end was sealed a bit of silvery
metal.

“Platinum,” I said, as I looked at them.

“Yes,” said Tom laughing, “Mrs. Rosnosky taught you to know platinum
when you see it. Just look through this.”

He held the tube before us, and the same magic bending of the lines
showed as we gazed. The tube was filled with the gas that I had seen in
the shade above.

“That’s as pretty a piece of work as I ever did,” said Tom approvingly.
“Transferred it without allowing practically a particle of air to
get in. Now we’re ready to try the current on it, and then the
spectroscope.”

Rembrandt might well have painted the picture that I beheld, to hang
beside the “Lesson in Anatomy” that dominates the old Museum at the
Hague. A striking group of four bent above the shining tubes and
polished mountings of the spectroscope. Tom, eager, with his fine lean
face showing the highest power of receptivity to new ideas, mouth
mobile but firm, with an ever present tendency towards an upward lift
of the corners; Hamerly, careful thoughtful scholar, in our college
slang “a little on the grind type,” extremely bald, his glasses perched
judicially on his rather prominent nose, his face showing the lines
of deep and strong thought; Swenton, faithful and efficient follower,
a man who would always be led, would never spring by any conceivable
chance from the narrow channels where his lot had chained him; Dorothy,
Maxima et Optima, now commanding by reason of her swift flying
intellect, now yielding to her dreams as she had an hour or two ago
in the hansom cab, and, when yielding, most womanly, most thoroughly
feminine of her sex. Faceted like a diamond, she shone upon the world
through every facet, and every line, plane and angle showed a new
beauty, a new grace.

The four stood eagerly intent upon the little tube before them, as they
connected it with a huge coil which stood near. That done, everything
was ready to throw the switch which would send the electric current
leaping from one platinum pole to another, penetrating the gas in the
tube, heating it, changing its action, forcing it to submit to the
current’s tremendous force.

“All ready?” asked Tom, as he straightened up from the last adjustment.
“Swenton, you turn off the lights and I’ll put on the current here.”

As the lights went out, and we heard the sound of the throwing of
the switch, Dorothy stepped back by me. A low buzz grew swiftly in
intensity, and then a simultaneous cry broke from us all. Within the
tube a soft blue came slowly from out the dark, the blue of early dawn
on quiet waters, as we gazed it turned darker, more brilliant; now it
was the deep, steel blue of the biting autumn day, now the deep, blue
black of velvet tropic night. Every change, every hue was lighted by
the rarest and most exquisite effulgence man could conceive. No glory
bound to earth it seemed, rather an unearthly brilliancy, perhaps such
radiance as led the three kings, Gaspar, Melchior and Balthazar, to the
manger where the young child lay. It awed us all.

“That is beyond anything I ever saw,” said Hamerly at length, breaking
the silence. “I have observed every known gas under the influence of
current, but never anything like this.”

“Nor I,” said Tom. “But there may be no time to spare. Let’s try it
with the spectroscope.”

As Tom and Dorothy bent over the instrument, I asked Hamerly, “What do
you expect to find from the spectroscope? What does it do?”

“It breaks down light,” answered Hamerly, “by means of a prism, as
a prismatic chandelier or a prismatic glass thermometer throws the
spectrum of a sunbeam on the floor, breaking the white light of the sun
into a shifting mass of color that changes from red, through orange
and green to violet. Every different glowing gas gives off a slightly
different light. We can tell by the spectroscope whether the light
from this gas is the same as any we have known before, or whether it
is different. If the light waves sent out are unlike any recognized
before, we can be sure we have a new gas.”

Tom was turning a screw, with his eye glued to a small telescope.
“Change that tube a bit to the right, Hamerly,” he said, and it was
changed. “Now a bit higher. No, not so high, a bit lower now. There you
are.”

He gazed long and intently, then rose, motioning Hamerly in silence to
take his place. Dorothy followed Hamerly, and Swenton followed her.
I ended, but I could distinguish nothing save some lines crossing a
scale placed within the tube. As I rose from the stool, Tom reached
up to throw on the lights. As he faced around, Hamerly met him with
outstretched hand.

“It is only given to a handful of scientists in a century,” he said,
“to find a new element, to discover one of those units from which the
world is made. I believe you have done it this afternoon.”

“It is a new, elementary gas,” said Dorothy. “You found it, Tom, when
you climbed that table.”

“Much good it will do me, so far as that goes,” remarked Tom. “So far
as we know, all there is of it in the world is in this tube. I don’t
know how to produce any more, and I can’t publish anything about it,
for it would interfere with our search for the man.”

“You have no right to say that it’s no use,” said Dorothy. “Again and
again as we have gone on, the slightest unexpected things have come
to mean the most. I believe this tube of unknown gas may be a most
important link in the chain.”

“All right,” said Tom. “Just as you say. You can be sure I wasn’t going
to throw it into the waste basket.”

While Swenton cleared away, the rest of us went into the wooden room.
Hamerly passed across and opened one of the wooden shutters. “The fog
is lifting,” he said.

We looked out and saw that the other side of the street was gradually
becoming visible. Dorothy seated herself by the window, and we joined
her.

“I don’t know that there could be a better time,” I began, “than right
here and now, to find out just where we are. For my part, I want to
understand the relation between the new gas and all that has gone
before. If we bring all our information together, won’t there be a
better chance to get a line on our next move?”

“We have two things in our hands,” said Tom thoughtfully. “This tube
of gas here and the cigarette case. We know that the ships really
disappeared, because Jim has been to the bottom of Portsmouth Harbor
and seen the men that lie there. We know by the same token that this
force kills, by a sort of paralysis, every man whom it attacks. Oh,
that reminds me,” he exclaimed, checking himself. “Let me see that
cigarette case again, if you will, Hamerly?” The case once in his hand,
he looked it over with minute care. “Insulated within the paraffin by
caema, don’t you think?” he asked Dorothy.

After a brief inspection she also nodded. “That’s caema, all right.”

“Never mind caema, now, whatever it is,” I said. “Let’s go on with the
business. What else do we know?”

Hamerly took up the tale. “We know to a reasonable certainty that Dr.
Heidenmuller was the first man who found the source of this power, and
that he died when it accidentally was let loose. We know that some of
this substance, probably in powder form like radium, was kept in the
leather cigarette case, insulated by paraffin and caema.” He paused.

“We know,” went on Dorothy, “that when the man who is trying to stop
all war uses this force, a tremendous amount of radio-active energy is
generated, enough to affect reflectoscopes half around the world.”

“We know there is something which is even more than all those things,”
I broke in. “We know there is a man who is slaughtering men by the
hundreds, in pursuit of his ideal, and that it is our business, in
more ways than one, to run him down. How will the data we have on hand
enable us to do that?”

As I spoke, Dorothy was sitting looking meditatively out of the window.
The fog had lifted a little more. Hamerly straightened in his chair.

“Miss Haldane,” he said, “if you will look straight across the street
from where you are sitting, you can see the spot from which the sign
fell on the day that Dr. Heidenmuller died.”

Dorothy turned in her chair, and we all crowded about her. Hamerly
pointed across the road. There, against the brick wall of an old house,
blackened by the smoke of many sooty years, two small rectangles showed
in light relief against the surrounding darkness. The sight of those
spots, where the supports to the sign had once stood, brought the whole
horror of it home to me more forcibly than anything else. The very
smallness, the homeliness of the thing drove it in. The accumulated
effects of the charged electroscopes, of the wave-measuring machine,
of the bodies on the ocean’s floor, of Dr. Heidenmuller’s death, and
of the gas we had just found, rose to their very crest in those small,
light gray spots, less sullied than the rest of the wall.

“And there is where the wooden sign fell down, and its iron supports
disappeared,” said Tom reflectively. “Jove, I’d like to have seen it
happen. If anybody had seen it, though, he wouldn’t have believed his
eyes.”

We were still standing, peering out through the rising mist, when
Dorothy spoke out excitedly. “That’s the next clue, there’s nothing
else that will do so well,--the hunt for disappearing iron.”

“What good will that do?” said Tom. “We know where iron has
disappeared, and we’ve run everything down as far as we could. It isn’t
likely that Heidenmuller or the man went around shooting off signs for
fun.”

“Of course not,” answered Dorothy impatiently. “But don’t you see the
man must have had a laboratory, or lodgings, anyway, somewhere in
London, if he got his data and his power from Dr. Heidenmuller here.
When Dr. Heidenmuller let his discovery get away from him, it killed
him, and caused all the metal which it reached to disappear. Now, the
man hasn’t been killed by his weapon, unless it happened very recently,
but it’s perfectly possible that he might have allowed some of his
magic substance to escape without injury to himself. If that happened,
it would destroy any metal at hand. If we could find some place where
iron disappeared, we might get a direct clue to the whereabouts of the
man. It’s worth trying, anyway.”

“I’m sure it is,” I cried. “Tom, you old doubter, speak up and admit
Dorothy knows twice as much about it as you and I put together.”

“I guess not,” said Tom firmly. “There may be something in this, if we
could get track of everything that bore on disappearing iron, London
over; but,” he went on, “talk about a needle in a hay stack. You went
up against a hard enough proposition in running down Heidenmuller’s
laboratory here, but this new deal is far worse. You can’t advertise.”

“No, I don’t see how you can,” remarked Dorothy, a trifle discouraged.

“Oh, this thing’s easy enough,” I broke in. “I wish everything was as
simple. Inside of two days, I’ll have all the information that London
holds with regard to disappearing iron.”

“How can you get it?” cried the three in unison.




CHAPTER XIV


“By using the device which ministers at the same time to the vanity
and the necessity of man, the clipping bureau,” I replied. “We will
subscribe to that distributor of special information, and get every
clipping for the last six months that bears upon falling blinds, signs
lost, or stolen iron. They can ransack the files for us, and send us
the result of their labor.”

“Just the trick,” cried Tom enthusiastically. “We’ll go straight to
work on it. Now let’s get out of here.”

Bearing our precious tube of gas, we started back, leaving Swenton to
close the laboratory and follow later. No such delightful wandering was
provided for our return as for our coming. All too soon we were back
at the Savoy with our day’s labor over, ready to follow the new trail
wherever it might lead us.

Two mornings after the eventful day in Heidenmuller’s laboratory, I
knocked at Dorothy’s door, and entered to find the broad table of her
sunny parlor covered with piles of neat clippings, each with a docketed
slip at the top. The clipping bureau had exceeded my best hopes, and
had turned in the information in quantities. Tom and Dorothy were
bending over the piles sorting them, as the maid ushered me in.

“If you hadn’t told them to sort these things at their office, we
should have been swamped beyond all hope of salvation,” grumbled Tom,
as he stood with a bundle of clippings between every finger of both
hands. “Where are the Westminster shutters, Dorothy?”

“Here they are,” said Dorothy. “Now I want the Chelsea signs. It’s just
like solitaire. The signs are my cards. The blinds go to Tom, and you
can take stolen iron. That’s stolen iron, that heap of packets over on
the other side of the table.”

I sat down to my task. Hour after hour passed, and we sorted, read, and
rejected. Now and then a clipping would go aside for further reference.
Occasionally a packet or a single slip would pass from one to another.
Lunch took an hour, but after lunch we turned again to our labors, and
afternoon tea time came and went before we were done. At length Tom
rose and gave a mighty yawn. “Eight that look good,” he remarked.

“Eight from me,” I echoed.

“Ten,” chimed in Dorothy.

“That’s not half bad,” said Tom reflectively. “There were hundreds of
clippings there, and we’ve brought them down pretty low, all things
considered.”

We three dined alone that night, and when the coffee came on, Tom
reached into his pocket and pulled out a long envelope with the
twenty-six clippings. “Which comes first?” he asked, “Signs or blinds
or stolen iron?”

“Match you to decide,” I answered, and I pulled out a sovereign. “I’ll
take signs, you take shutters.” Tom won.

“Shutters against stolen iron then,” cried Dorothy.

“I’ll match you this time,” said Tom. We matched again, and again Tom
won.

“Then one of my eight shutters is the trump card,” exclaimed Tom. “I’ll
number them one to eight, and then pass the bunch around so we can each
pick the two that look like winners. Then I’ll pass the signs to pick a
second choice.”

Dorothy, in her gray gown of shimmering silk, her face flushed with the
excitement of the decision, pored over the little list carefully for
some minutes before she returned them to Tom, who passed them on to
me, remarking briefly, “I made up my mind when I picked the eight out
of the bunch.” Three times over I read the list which told of blinds
dropping on still days and injuring passers-by. Tom had eliminated the
accounts which told of signs and shutters blown off in gales. It might
easily happen that a gale and the escape of the destructive power would
occur simultaneously, but the unusual was the thing we were after;
there, most of all, would lie the clue we sought. At last I came to a
decision and looked up. “One in the first lot and three in the second,”
I said.

“One and three,” echoed Dorothy.

“The same,” said Tom. “Great thing to be unanimous. Read ’em aloud,
Jim.” I obeyed.

“‘A shutter which fell from a house on Gower Street, just off Tottenham
Court Road, struck a passing laborer yesterday morning, and inflicted
injuries of so grave a character that he was immediately removed in an
unconscious condition to the hospital. His identity has not yet been
established.’ That’s number one.”

“‘A large sign which fell from a second story at Chelsea yesterday
broke in pieces on the sidewalk beneath, but fortunately inflicted no
serious injury.’ That’s number three. Which do we choose?”

“Both of those look rather good to me,” answered Tom. “But I think the
one near Tottenham Court Road looks best. The chances of finding the
man’s laboratory would be greater in Bloomsbury than farther out.”
Dorothy nodded her approval.

“All right,” I said, as we rose. “The corps will move upon Bloomsbury
at dawn, under command of General Dorothy Haldane.”

“Dawn being interpreted nine thirty, we will,” answered Dorothy
laughing.

The next morning found us bowling along towards our destination,
discussing meanwhile the method of attack. “Leave it to inspiration,” I
said, as we drew up at the door. “Let me play a lone hand on this.”

Luck was with me. There was a sign of “Lodgings” in the window. Leaping
out I walked up the steps and rang the bell, while the cab went on
down the street. The maid who opened the door was trimmer than I had
expected to find. The mistress of the lodging house, when she appeared,
though a perfect mountain of flesh, gave signs of a very considerable
intelligence. “Yes, there were lodgings. A second and fourth floor
front.” Up the stairs panted and wheezed the stout landlady, while I
followed in her train. On the fourth floor we halted and entered the
small hall bedroom at the top of the stairs. I threw the window open
and leaned out, and looked up and down the street.

“Bad thing if a shutter fell from here,” I said. “Wasn’t it in one of
the houses near this that the shutter fell and injured a laborer a
couple of months ago?”

The landlady seized my lead instantly. “It was the right hand shutter,”
she said, “in the very window you’re looking out of now.”

I bent eagerly to look at the hinges. They were brand new, while those
on the other side were strained and worn through years of exposure to
wind and sun and rain.

“You don’t say,” I replied. “Most interesting. I suppose the hinges
rusted and broke.”

“No,” said the landlady, “that was one of the queerest things about
it. After the whole thing was over, and I came to look at the place
where the shutter fell, there was no trace of a hinge. It must have
pulled right out of the brick, and when I went next day to look at the
shutters in the kitchen, the hinges, screws, and everything were gone,
and I never saw the least trace of them from that day to this. We had
the new shutter put up a week later.”

“What luck!” I thought to myself, as I looked around over the adjoining
housetops. “Hit it first time trying. Somewhere, behind those roofs,
lies the laboratory of the man who is trying to stop all war.” I parted
with the landlady, promising an early decision, and went in search of
Tom and Dorothy.

They left the carriage as I approached and hurried towards me. “The
iron of the shutter disappeared,” I said significantly.

Tom gave the long, low whistle which always typified interest and
surprise to him.

“You think the man’s laboratory is somewhere near here, then,” asked
Dorothy excitedly.

“Judging by Hamerly’s experience with the sign opposite Dr.
Heidenmuller’s laboratory, I certainly do,” I answered seriously. “This
probably happened just as that did.”

“Then,” said Tom, “it’s probably up to us to make a house to house
canvass of the neighborhood. It looks to me as if the chances were
better in one of the buildings on Tottenham Court Road than in any of
the houses round here.”

“That’s right,” I answered briefly. “Tell you what we’ll do. We’ll ask
at every shop if they know of any chemical laboratory. Tell ’em we’re
hunting for a man who works in such a laboratory. Lay it on thick and
give ’em plenty of detail. That’s the way to get the information you
want.”

“I’ll wait for you in the carriage round the corner,” Dorothy called
after us, as we started away.

From bakeshop to dairy, from furniture store to shoe shop, I travelled,
searching for some news of my poor Cousin George, who had worked in a
laboratory somewhere near the corner of Tottenham Court Road and Gower
Street, and who had disappeared. Persistently diplomatic, I forced
my way on, under rebuff after rebuff, leaving no store until I had a
pretty vivid idea of the various occupations which made their home on
every floor of its building. As I left after receiving one particularly
stinging answer, I caught sight of Tom across the street, beckoning. I
followed him at a little distance until he turned a sharp corner into
a little alley. He appeared slightly dishevelled as he turned around.

“See here,” he said abruptly, “I’m afraid we’ll be run in if we keep
this up much longer. I’ve been in one row already. Had to knock a man
down who made caustic remarks about sneak thieves. What have you got
hold of, anyway?”

“Haven’t got hold of a thing,” I responded.

“Well, then,” said Tom, “let’s cast back and take another look at the
topography, just where the shutter fell.”

Back we went over the ground once more, and stopped to examine
cautiously the window with its green blind.

“That’s a fourth story corner room,” said Tom reflectively, “and the
house next to it is only three stories. Why, you blind man,” he went on
suddenly, “only one side of the shutter fell, so the attack couldn’t
have come from the front. It must have come from the back of the house.
Let’s go round and see what is just behind this.”

Round the square we circumnavigated, landing finally at a building some
five stories high, whose first story showed the shelves and cluttered
window of a second-hand book shop. Beside the shop a flight of stairs
led to the upper stories. No sign gave evidence of any business carried
on above the first.

“Here goes for the book shop,” said Tom, and we marched in.

A tall, stooping youth of exaggerated height, with lank and flaming red
moustache, came wearily forward, stifling a cavernous yawn as he came.
We repeated our stock inquiry to him. We were Colonials from Australia
seeking our Cousin George, who worked in a laboratory. Did our friend
with the red moustache know of any laboratory near? A gleam of interest
lighted the slightly watery eyes.

“H’I don’t rightly know w’ether h’it’s h’a laboritory h’or not,” he
began, “but there’s some sort h’of a bloomin’ show h’occupies h’our
’ole fifth. H’I’ve never been h’ible to see h’inside h’it yet. You
might try h’a shot h’at h’it ’owever.”

We received the volley of misplaced aspirates with joyous hearts,
noting the gleam of avid curiosity in the watery eyes, as the clerk
thought of the mysterious laboratory on the top floor. All he could
tell was that the top floor had been let a few months before to a tall
man. With the usual vagueness of his type of mind, that was as far
as he could go. Over and over again he repeated the same indefinite
phrase, a tall man. When the man moved in, a couple of vans had brought
strange furnishings, a small furnace, glassware and instrument cases.
A little while ago an assistant had appeared, a foreigner who knew no
English, or at least refused to understand the language. The two,
the man and his assistant, often worked together till late at night.
Sometimes, the clerk believed, they worked all night. As for him, he
would have repeated the thing to the police. He didn’t believe in
having mysteries like that around, but his master, the proprietor of
the book shop, refused to part with regular paying tenants. Yes, sir,
he’d tried again and again to see what they were doing, but there was
a curtain over the door, and you couldn’t see anything through the
keyhole. The door was always locked, so that the adventurous spirit
of the clerk had to be content with imagining the horrible crimes
perpetrated behind the curtained door.

This certainly looked good. With anxious hearts, Tom and I started up
the stairs in search once more of our Cousin George, halting, however,
at the second story, once the clerk was left safely behind.

“It certainly looks like queer street, anyway,” remarked Tom
reflectively. “It may be the man, or it may be some bunch of
counterfeiters or other criminals. I’m not going to back down for a
minute, but I think one of us had better hunt up Dorothy, tell her
where we are, and have her put the police on the trail, if we shouldn’t
happen to turn up to-night. Strikes me that that would be only an
elementary precaution.”

“I’ll do it,” I said. “You watch here.”

Before Tom could object, I was half way down the stairs and out on
the street. On Tottenham Court Road, I found Dorothy driving up and
down. She leaned forward questioningly as I jumped in. I nodded in
answer, “Yes. We’ve got the place, but we need your help now.” Warned
by experience as to its necessity, I had mapped out my line of argument
carefully, as I hurried along. “We have the very place, but we want you
to stay outside and send us help, if we should get into trouble.”

Dorothy’s face fell. “I want to go with you the worst way,” she said.
“Yet I don’t like the idea of you two going into danger without any
outside assistance. What have you found out?”

It was no easy matter to convince her, yet when Dorothy saw the
condition of affairs, there was really nothing she could do but give
in. For us to explore that unknown territory, without some line on
the outside to protect us in case of peril, was manifestly unwise.
Certainly it was not possible for us to let so plain a clue go by.

At my command, the cabman drove past the old book store, up the street,
and round the square. Back on the main thoroughfare again, I made ready
to return and join Tom.

“You’ve got the place fixed clearly in mind?” I asked, looking up at
her from the sidewalk.

To my surprise, Dorothy’s eyes were filled with tears, and her voice
came pleadingly. “I wish you did not feel you had to go. I don’t know
why I feel so strangely about your going, but I do. Isn’t there some
other way out?”

I felt my resolution waning, as an almost overmastering desire to seize
her in my arms, in the face of shocked and respectable Bloomsbury,
swept over me.

“We’ve got to follow the trail to the end, Dorothy,” I answered.
“Everything’s going to be all right, don’t worry.”

As I turned away, I felt a light touch, almost like a caress, on my
coat sleeve. Accident or not, no knight ever went into battle more
inspired by his lady’s gage than I, bearing that accolade, strode
towards the old book shop and the mysterious laboratory on the fifth
floor.

Tom greeted me eagerly as I reached the second story. “Not a sound from
the laboratory,” he began. “And, luck of lucks, there’s an open, empty
room opposite, where we can wait. Come on up.”

Up the stairs and into the empty room we passed, pausing briefly to
examine the blank and heavy door of the mysterious workers fastened by
heavy locks. Our waiting place proved nothing more than a bare attic
chamber, with a constricted view of roofs and chimney pots.

“Not exactly the abode of luxury,” I said, glancing around critically,
“but then it’s all in the day’s work. I’ve waited in worse places for a
lot smaller stakes.”

Folding his great coat for a cushion, Tom seated himself back against
the wall. He had left the door a trace ajar. “I’m practically sure that
there’s no one in there now, and we’ll wait here till they arrive.
We shall be sure to hear them when they come up the stairs. By Jove,
never thought of it. Not a thing to read with us. There’s the book
shop downstairs; I wonder if I dare to try a sortie.” He thought a
moment. “No, not yet, anyway. Tell you what I’ll do. Here’s a sporting
proposition for you.” He pulled out his penknife and opened it. “Here’s
a bully bare floor. I’ll play you a game of stick knife to while away
the time.”

Nobody but an eternal boy like Tom would have conceived of a game of
stick knife to while away the time of waiting before the mystery hidden
by the blank face of the oaken door across the passage. Nobody but an
eternal boy would have won so exasperatingly. Expert in all intricacies
of the art, Tom had far outdistanced me as a knife juggler and I was
lagging far in the rear, when we heard the quiet closing of the door
five stories below. In an instant we were on our feet, waiting for the
ascending heavy footsteps. Tom’s mobile face stiffened into rigid lines
as he crouched, poised beside the door, while I stood ready to swing
the door open, and spring if necessary on the man who came. As the
footsteps halted on the landing before us, Tom bent towards me.

“The assistant,” he whispered, “let him unlock the door and we’ll push
our way in with him.”

Everything happened in the twinkling of an eye. The jingle of keys,
the slight creak of the opening door, then a sudden bound and we
were across the hall and in an anteroom facing a bewildered man,
evidently a Norwegian, whose blond face was framed in flaxen hair and
spade-shaped flaxen beard, and whose somewhat cowlike eyes peered
out from spectacles of massive frame. He was clothed in a queer,
straight-fronted, long, blue sack coat with voluminous, almost
sailor-like trousers. As he saw us standing on either side of him,
he started back for a moment, but then stopped short, his keys still
dangling from his hand.

“Pardon this somewhat sudden entrance,” I said, in my politest tone,
“but we are inspectors to visit the laboratory.”

A flood of unintelligible gutturals followed my statement. This was
accompanied by vehement pointings at the door by which we had entered,
and which was now closed, with Tom before it. I sat on the table
swinging my legs till the torrent passed. Then, as it died away, I
walked boldly to one of the two doors on the opposite side to that
which we entered, tried it, and then tried the other. Both were locked.
Carefully watching the assistant’s face, I pointed first at the keys
still dangling forgotten in his hand, and then pointed at the first
door I had tried, going to it and shaking the lock. To our surprise,
the indignation in the man’s countenance suddenly ceased. A mild
acquiescence shone from behind his glasses and, going forward, he
unlocked the door, opened to a twilight behind and went in. We stumbled
in to the half light, Tom closing the door behind us. As we entered,
I tripped over a chair and fell headlong, throwing Tom, who was
following. As I scrambled to my feet, a guttural laugh rang in my ears
and a door slammed. There was a sound of bolts run home as I dashed
forward, only to come headlong against a closed door. I rushed back to
the door through which we had entered, and shook it in vain, hearing,
to my bitter mortification, a bolt running into its slide as I shook,
a sound followed by another outburst of Northern Teutonic glee. Foiled
on both sides, I wheeled to look about me, and saw Tom already making a
rapid investigation of the premises.

We were in a small room, perhaps ten by twelve, surrounded by blank
walls, save for openings made by the two doors on opposite sides. The
only passage to the outer air was through an iron plate, perhaps nine
inches by three feet, placed in the flat roof. In this were set small
glass bull’s-eyes, of the same type as those used to light basements
from sidewalks. A couple of wooden stools made the only furnishings of
the room. Tom turned to me at the end of his inspection and shook his
head.

“I’ve made many a bad break in my life,” he said regretfully, “but
coming in here after you and closing that door is the worst yet. That
assistant, with his fool face, tricked me completely.”

“Same here,” I answered, “but there’s no use in wasting time talking
about it. If there’s any possible way to do it, we must be out of here
before the man can notify the master.”

“Right,” said Tom. “Let’s try smashing our way out, first, by aid of
these stools.”

In the pause that followed this proposal, we heard the heavy, slow step
of the assistant cross the anteroom, heard the opening and the closing
of the outer door. We were left alone.

“Good,” said Tom, “Now we can make all the noise we want to.”

Suiting the action to the word, he gave a mighty blow to the door with
the wooden stool. The door stood like a rock, but the stool flew to
pieces, the fragments of its seat narrowly missing me as they flew by.

“A well-made door,” said Tom reflectively. “They don’t have doors like
that in most modern houses.”

As he spoke, he crossed the room to examine the door on the opposite
side. “Same staunch build,” he remarked judicially. “We couldn’t be
caged better, outside a prison. I’m rather lighter than you, Jim,”
he went on, “let me get up on your shoulders and try this small roof
window.”

He climbed up, and in a minute or two came down again. “Padlocked with
an iron bar and staple from the outside,” he said briefly. “There’s
just one thing left. To dig our way out with our knives through that
solid oak door. I don’t know, of course, whether we can do it or not,
but I think it’s the only alternative.”

“That’s one way, but not the only one,” I said. “One thing we can do
first, put a signal out for Dorothy.”

“How can you signal Dorothy?” asked Tom.

“Break a hole in one of those glass bull’s-eyes up there,” I answered,
“and put a rung of the broken stool up through, with my handkerchief
tied on it.”

“Good work,” said Tom. “Just the ticket.”

In two minutes our flag of distress was waving on the roof.

“Now for the door,” I cried, and we both set to work on the hard oak
about the lock. British oak is proverbially tough, but that oak was the
toughest that ever came out of Britain’s primeval forests, I verily
believe. When we had worked on it for what seemed an endless time, we
had but a slight furrow on either side of the lock, and two broken
blades to show for our labors. Still we kept doggedly on, chiseling
and cutting, little by little, till some impression really began to be
made. At length Tom straightened up painfully.

“That’s backbreaking work, all right,” he remarked, with a groan. “I
never knew how much I sympathized with escaping prisoners till now.”

As we leaned against the wall, I heard a slight movement outside.
“Hush,” I muttered, “there’s a sound.”

The noise grew louder. It was a key turning in the inside door. Then
not one, but three or four persons, came hurriedly across the floor
towards the door by which we had entered. Tom seized the whole stool
and poised it ready to rush out, while I gripped a rung of the broken
one. The bolt shot back, the key turned, the door swung open, and
there in the rectangle stood Dorothy, Hamerly, the assistant who had
imprisoned us and an unknown elderly man. In a moment Dorothy was in
Tom’s arms, but her hand groped for mine as she clung to him. She
sobbed only for a moment, recovering herself almost as swiftly as she
had broken down.

“Good work, old girl,” said Tom, patting her. “I don’t think, frankly,
that I was ever so glad to see you in all my life.”

As Dorothy, still with a slightly tremulous smile, turned towards me,
Tom gave his hand to Hamerly.

“How in blazes did Dorothy do this trick, anyway?” he asked.

“I saw your signal of distress from the other side of the street,”
broke in Dorothy, “and I drove straight to the Museum for one of our
friends there. I didn’t want to bother with police if I could help it.
I met Mr. Hamerly just where you met him before, on the steps. And just
think, this good man here is the book shop man. We met him as we came
down to the door after trying the place.”

“So you and Hamerly charged the lion’s den alone, did you?” I
interrupted.

“Why, of course,” said Dorothy.

“It’s all due to her,” said Hamerly.

“No, it’s due to the assistant’s getting frightened,” said Dorothy.
“Isn’t it, Mr. Elder?”

“If you’d not been here, Miss Haldane,” said the book store proprietor,
“I never should have known what he was after. I couldn’t make out at
all.”

“What kind of laboratory is this?” I asked, determined not to be thrown
off the scent.

The old man laughed. “I fancy my clerk must have been telling you some
queer things. I’ve never told him all I knew. I don’t mind keeping him
wondering. This is my brother’s laboratory, and as to what he does,
look here!”

He threw open the second door and we gazed in. Sets on sets of false
teeth, boxes of dentist’s supplies and dental machinery met our view. I
suddenly began to laugh. Tom looked at me for a moment and burst into
peal on peal of laughter, while the whole crowd, even the assistant,
who had been gazing anxiously at us meanwhile, finally joined in. At
last, weak with laughter, I asked, “Why did the assistant shut us up?”

“He thought you were burglars,” explained the book shop man, “and as my
brother is out of town, he ran for me. My brother is a little careful
whom he lets in, as he does his main business in another place, and
this is a side affair.”

And so the incident of the false teeth laboratory closed.

The outer air had never seemed so good to me save twice before,--when
I left the New York prison in Tom’s motor car headed for Dorothy,
and when I came up from the bottom of Portsmouth Harbor. I took in
long breaths of it, as we walked towards the carriage and as we drove
towards the hotel. Dorothy sat silent beside Tom, but every now and
then I met her eyes, and they fell. The old look seemed gone. There was
a change, a new and very sweet timidity.

As we entered the hotel, Tom drew a long breath. “A good night’s
sleep,” he said, “and we’ll tackle clipping number three.”

“Agreed,” said I.

“Agreed,” chimed in Dorothy, “provided you’ll take me with you. But I
won’t go through another afternoon like this for anybody.”




CHAPTER XV


I was just dropping off to sleep that night when I heard a sharp rap at
my door. Jumping up, I opened it, and Tom rushed in.

“I’ve just thought of something, Jim. The hinges did disappear from
that blind. We struck the wrong house to-day, but we mustn’t give up
on that account. Suppose you go back again to the lodging house in the
morning, and see if you can get any more light.”

“Sure thing,” I answered. “But now, for heaven’s sake, let me go to
sleep.”

“Of course,” said Tom, in an aggrieved tone. “But I thought you’d want
to hear about that as soon as I struck it.”

“Sure thing,” I repeated again. “Only, now I know about it, go to bed,
and let me do the same.” My head touched the pillow as I heard the
sound of the closing door, and then I slept the clock around.

The next morning I started straight for Bloomsbury, to my destination
of the morning before, the lodging house. My stout friend the landlady
was out, so the maid informed me, but I could see the room again if I
wished. Once on the top story, I flung open the window and gazed about
me. The wilderness of brick was broken only by the waving boughs that
keep this part of London from being quite the dreary waste that most
modern cities are fast becoming, or have long since become. As I stood
there striving to pierce the mystery, the maid stood at a shambling
attention in the doorway. Finally, I turned.

“I was very much interested in the story your mistress told me of the
falling shutter,” I said, slipping a half crown into her ready fingers.
“I should very much like to know if any part of the old shutter is by
any chance in existence.”

The maid’s eyes glistened, as she glanced surreptitiously at the coin
in her hand. “Wreck’s down in t’ wash’oose,” she said.

“You’re from the Coal-pits or the Mines,” I said, smiling as I heard
her dialect.

A dim flush showed in her sallow cheek. “I’m fra about there, sir. Hast
ever been there? There’s none like it.”

“I’ve been there,” I answered, smiling again. “There’s some fine men
there.”

Her eyes lighted once more. “Happen thou might like to see wreck?
Canst, if thou wish.”

“Just what I would like,” I answered, and the maid turned and clattered
down the stairs. Down in the basement, leaning against the wall beside
some tubs, was the wrecked shutter. I brought it out to light. The
hinges were gone. Not a bit of iron showed upon it. I turned to the
silent maid.

“Queer thing where the hinges went?” I said questioningly.

“Noa,” she replied. “See t’wood-box there?”

“Yes,” I answered.

“Thot had t’hinges; Michael took them t’day t’shutter fell.”

Eagerly I bent over the rude wood-box and examined the hinges
carefully, measuring them with my handkerchief, and comparing the size
with the lighter spots on the shutter, which showed where the hinges
had been. There could be little doubt that what the girl said was true.
One doubt remained.

“Why did not your mistress know what became of the hinges?” I asked.

“T’ mistress is rarely fogged, and doan’t know many a thing goes on,”
the maid explained. “But to a man thot knows t’ Coal-pits--” She did
not finish, but I understood, and a second half crown lighter in purse,
I walked away.

All the way home the ludicrousness of our twenty-four hour comedy of
errors kept growing on me, and I startled more than one passer-by with
a sudden chuckle. Tom and Dorothy sprung up in alarm as I entered and
leaned against the wall, weak with laughter.

“Are you hurt, Jim?” cried Dorothy, anxiously turning towards me.

“No! No!” I gasped. “But the disappearing iron hinge of the blind
belongs in the same class as the dentist’s laboratory. ‘Michael put
them on t’ wood-box in t’ washoose.’ That’s where they disappeared to.”

The full beauty of the situation suddenly dawned upon Tom’s mind,
and he broke into inextinguishable laughter while Dorothy, her face
lighting with glee, joined in, a moment later, in silvery accord. The
adventure of the two young men and the young woman who hunted the
disappearing shutter of Bloomsbury ended with our mirth.

Directly after lunch we started off towards Chelsea. Up the embankment,
past the Houses of Parliament and the Tate Gallery, by the broad
stretches of Chelsea Hospital where a few old pensioners were sunning
themselves on the trim walks, our motor car carried us to the very
edges of the quaint old suburb. Our chauffeur had never heard of the
street named in the clipping, and it was only after diligent search
that we found the little back street, a mews, where stables and kennels
alternated with houses of stablemen and farriers, where trig grooms in
leggings the chrysalides, and pompous coachmen in severe livery the
full grown moths, met on equal terms.

At the end of the little street stood a small public house for the
benefit of the Jehus who congregated in the neighborhood. As we passed
it, Tom stopped the chauffeur.

“I’ll run in here,” he said, “and see what I can find.” In ten minutes
he was back.

“Have you found anything?” queried Dorothy, leaning forward.

Tom nodded. “We’ll leave the car here,” he said laconically. “Come on
with me.”

Down the little street and through an inner court Tom led the way. At
length he entered a gate whose rounding arch supported a quaint carved
horse’s head, that might well have seen the equipages of a century
or more ago lumbering beneath. Within, was a square paved courtyard;
straight ahead, a boarded stable; on the right, an old farrier’s shop,
whose disused bellows and forge showed through a dusty window; on the
left, a slatternly dwelling. A sign on the stable and the shop stated
the whole premises were to let. “Inquire on the left of the yard.”

“They told me in the pub that the sign hung over the gateway with the
carved horse’s head,” said Tom. “It was called the sign of the three
horses. I’m going to see if they know anything about it at the house.”

Dorothy and I waited by the gateway, while Tom crossed the yard. As
he advanced, the door opened and a tall, rectangular woman came out,
clothespin in mouth and a piece of washing in her hands. A somewhat
one-sided conversation followed.

“I want to see the stable for rent,” said Tom.

“Um um um um,” responded the woman, from her half closed mouth.

“I beg your pardon,” said Tom, “but I don’t quite understand.”

Another mumble followed, as the woman right about faced and walked into
the house. Tom cast a comical look at us.

“That’s what comes of not learning the language of the country you’re
going into,” he called, in a loud aside. “I can talk German, French or
Italian, read Latin and make a try at Greek, but I never studied a word
of Clothespin.”

As he ended, the woman reappeared, still grasping the garment for the
line, but holding out as well two ponderous iron keys. Tom took them
and turned to us, simply remarking, “We’ll look the place over.”

Loft, stalls and cellar of the stable offered us nothing, nor did we
get more from the windows with their view of littered yards. The old
farrier’s shop looked better. Tom thrust the ponderous key into the
lock and threw back the heavy door. Right where the sun cast its gleam
down the dusty floor lay a little pile of painted boards. I sprang
forward.

“Sliced animals,” I called to the others, as I brought the six or seven
old boards forward and began fitting them into place. I had them sorted
and arranged in a trice. Bruised as they were by their fall, the three
horses’ heads on the sign board still showed clear, though the dimming
effect of time had dulled the flaring tints of the rude artist.

“Not a nail in it or a bit of iron, though there were six nail holes to
every board. This can’t be another wood-box hinge case,” I remarked.

As we all bent eagerly over the sign, a voice broke in on us. “That
sign nearly cost us a pretty penny.”

We straightened up quickly. In the doorway stood a stout, red-whiskered
man.

“I’m the agent for the property,” he said, “I heard you were looking
it over, so I came across. We’re ready to put it in good shape for any
desirable tenant. There’s few better stable properties in the Chelsea
mews.”

“Really,” said Tom, “I’m not sure whether this will meet my needs or
not. We’ve just been looking things over and came upon this sign. It
must have received a pretty severe blow, for every screw is out of it.”

“Well, sir,” said the agent eagerly, “that’s the very strangest thing
I ever saw. I saw the sign go down,--I was just across the yard here
in that corner, and I happened to be looking out through the archway.
There was no wind, not a breath of air stirring, and yet, all of a
sudden, the old sign tumbled. A man had gone by not a minute before. It
might just as well hit him as not, or hit me, for that matter. And the
pole that held it, and the nails and hinges and everything must have
flown out of it when it struck. Least, I don’t see what else could have
happened to ’em. They weren’t there when I came along, and they were
good iron, too. I looked that sign over, myself, inside of two months,
to make sure things were all right.”

Our voluble friend stopped for breath. As Tom addressed him, I spoke in
an aside to Dorothy.

“I always supposed years ago that the English were the most silent race
on earth, but I’m finding out my mistake now. It’s the upper classes
that are silent and the country people. Your Londoner can talk a blue
streak, once he gets going.”

Tom had stepped out into the yard with the agent to give us a further
chance to look over the sign, and we were just about to make another
examination of the nail holes, when Tom sung out to us, “Come out here,
will you?”

Out we came, to see the agent hurrying away and Tom, with key in hand,
ready to lock up.

“I really believe we’ve got something, this time,” he said, in a low
voice. “It seems this chap is an understrapper of the agent of the Duke
of Moir, who owns all this property about here. He tells me that he
let three rooms to a man named Cragent, who occupied them as a workshop
or a laboratory off and on for some months, and left about two days
ago. Sometimes he’d be gone for months at a time. The man’s gone off
for the keys now. He’s going to let us go through the place. He tells
me that Cragent probably made some changes, though he hasn’t been
inside the place yet.”

Tom ended, the agent returned with the keys, and we followed on. Just
beyond the mews on the adjoining street, the agent mounted some stairs
beside a little bakeshop.

The red-whiskered man slipped a key in the lock and threw open the
door. Eagerly we pressed in. The bare rooms showed some slight litter
left by their former occupant, wrapping paper, broken bits of insulated
wire, a shelf which showed behind it heavy disconnected wires which
must have led to a motor generator, a sink with high goose neck tap.

“It was a laboratory, all right,” I said to Dorothy, who nodded and
passed by into the third room. She crossed directly to the rear window.

“Look here, Jim,” she called softly.

Tom and the agent were left behind in the large centre room. I followed
Dorothy’s pointing finger with my eyes, as I reached her side. There,
between the buildings, showed a narrow, open strip, which ended in the
shadow of a dark arch, crowned by a rudely carved horse’s head. It was
the arch where the sign of the “Three Horses” had hung.

“If this was the man’s laboratory, his destructive power could have
escaped from this window,” murmured Dorothy, “gone straight through,
and attacked that sign, without meeting iron anywhere else on the way.
Oh, Jim, do you suppose this room corresponded to Dr. Heidenmuller’s
wooden room? The man might have wooden panels to the windows and a
double door, and taken them down when he left.”

I shook my head. “If enough of that deadly stuff got away to destroy
the iron of the sign, it would destroy every nail inside the room, and
here are iron nails holding the window casing together.”

“That’s right,” said Dorothy, as she inspected the nail heads. “Those
do look like iron nails.” Then she broke square off. “Got your knife in
your pocket, Jim?”

Silently I produced and opened it.

“Now try to pry out that nail,” she commanded, pointing to one on the
window casing.

I obeyed, with the full expectation of breaking my knife short off. To
my utter surprise, the blade cut straight through the nail, with less
resistance than the wood around it offered. The nail head was shorn
away. Dorothy and I sprang at the same moment to pick it up, and we
met in a sudden collision. Only by the extraordinary presence of mind
which I showed in clasping Dorothy closely in my arms was a complete
spill averted. A soft tendril of the sweet spring woods swept my cheek,
the velvet petal of a flower brushed by my lips, and my whole body
was aflame. Scarcely the fraction of a second was Dorothy in my arms,
yet it seemed as if eons of life had passed. As we scrambled to our
feet, I could feel my face blazing. I looked at Dorothy. Her face was
as suffused as mine felt. Just then Tom entered and stood gazing at
us with a quizzical smile. “Head on collision,” he exclaimed, in mock
alarm. “Another big accident.” Not a word did Dorothy reply to his
badinage. She walked in an especially stately fashion to the window and
stood gazing out, while I busied myself energetically in hunting once
more for the end of the nail which my knife had shorn off. It was lying
just by my side, and as I picked it up, it crumbled.

“Why, these nail heads are putty,” I cried in amazement. “They’re
simply imitations of nails.”

In a minute Tom’s knife was in his hand, and, quite forgetting
everything else, he was hacking away at a point where another nail head
showed.

“Putty on top to represent an old nail head, and wooden peg doing the
business below,” he ejaculated. “I don’t believe there’s a bit of iron
in the place.”

Tom dug at nail head after nail head, and each flew off. “Dorothy, it’s
a wooden room,” he cried.

“Oh, really,” said Dorothy, in an entirely lifeless monotone.

“And there is the horse’s head out of that window. You must have been
blind not to have seen it before.”

“We did see it,” I said testily. “But you’re so confoundedly impetuous
you rush ahead before anybody can tell you anything.”

Tom paid but slight attention to my remarks. He was up on a window
sill, prying with his knife. “I’ve got it,” he exclaimed finally in
triumph. “Here’s the place where they hung the wooden shutters on with
wooden pegs, and they painted and puttied them over when they took the
panels down.”

He leaped down and started towards the other room. “I’m going to find
out what the agent knows,” he called back over his shoulder.

Dorothy still stood by the window, the later afternoon sun making a
golden halo of her somewhat rumpled hair. As I watched her, there
seemed to be something a trace less energetic in her posture. She was
leaning against the window and gazing fixedly outward. She did not
notice me at all. For ten minutes we remained in a silence broken only
when Tom returned, waving a dirty piece of paper triumphantly.

“The agent didn’t know where the chap had gone,” he cried, “but I’ve
got a line on him, anyway. Here’s the address of a dealer in electrical
supplies, left in a corner on a scrap of paper. We’ll drive straight to
the city and look him up.”

Down the embankment the way we came, past the Savoy and the Temple,
through Queen Victoria Street, and by the Bank to Bishopsgate Street we
ran. Dorothy sat beside me on the rear seat of the car, Tom next the
driver. All the way in, she gave me hardly a word, scarcely replied
to Tom’s occasional chatter. I had never seen her tongue so strangely
silent, her cheek so blushed with morning crimson, nor had I ever seen
her eyes more deeply thoughtful, more softly beautiful.

We drew up before the supply store and Tom hurried in, followed by
Dorothy and myself. He wanted some wire of the same type as that last
ordered by Mr. Cragent. Could they look up the order and let him have
it. Certainly. No difficulty at all. The clerk went back to examine
the order book, and I followed by his side. In the little dingy office
at the rear stood a high desk, with the tall books above in an ordered
row. Down came C. “Cragent, Page 116,” said the index. As the clerk
turned to the page, I glanced over his shoulder. “Mr. H. Cragent.” The
Chelsea address was crossed out with a line; written below were the
words, “9 Cheapside.” That was all I wanted. I nodded to Tom, as he
gave a hurried order for the wire, and we were free for the new address.

“This is the right one,” said Dorothy quietly, as we left the shop.

“How do you know?” asked Tom. “It looks good, I’ll admit, but I don’t
see how you can tell.”

“I don’t know how I can tell,” answered Dorothy, in low tones, “but I
feel sure, this time, as I haven’t before.”

In ten minutes we were at the corner nearest to the new address, had
left the car, and were walking up the busy street.

The sign above the door at 9 Cheapside proclaimed a haberdasher’s shop
within. The second story showed a dealer in notions, and the third and
fourth held no signs.

“There are leads from the power circuit running into the fourth story,”
said Tom, as we passed. “Here’s the door. No business cards for
anything above the second. Come on, let’s try next door.”

Up the stairs by a milliner’s shop, past the third story, to the
fourth, we climbed. A wing ran back, with a gallery that opened on one
side. At the rear was a short flight of steps, with a scuttle at the
top, which opened out on the roof. By good fortune, this was unlocked,
and we climbed through, out on the flat roof, into the maze of
chimneys. Tom was a little ahead and reached the parapet on the side
of Number 9, while we were still at the scuttle. As he turned to the
edge, he wheeled and beckoned to us expressively. We hurried forward.
Below, on the fourth story, three shuttered windows faced us. In the
centre one, the wind had blown half the blind open. Behind it, we gazed
on a solid wooden panel, which filled the window from top to bottom,
from side to side, behind the glass.

“An exact duplicate of the window panels of Heidenmuller’s wooden
room,” I whispered. Tom and Dorothy nodded silently.




CHAPTER XVI


Quietly we drew back from the parapet and, closing the scuttle behind
us, started down the narrow stairs. At their base, Dorothy stopped
suddenly. As Tom came up, he noticed her delay and paused with his hand
on the latch. “What is it, girl?” he asked, almost tenderly.

“You think we ought to go on, do you?” asked Dorothy hesitatingly.

“Of course we’re going on,” said Tom. “There’s no question about it.
That’s what we’re here for. What’s the matter, anyway?”

“Frankly, I don’t know,” said Dorothy slowly. “If we come through this
all right, I’ll try never to say a word again, but somehow,--somehow--”
She broke off without finishing.

“Cheer up, old girl,” comforted Tom, putting his arm about her waist.
“What should we do without your valiant spirit?”

I stood there mute. This was a new Dorothy, a silent, questioning woman
different from the one I knew, and yet like her. I could not seem to
collect my scattered wits enough to be of any service.

With an effort, Dorothy squared her shoulders. “Come on,” she said
firmly, and we started out for the door, Tom and I a couple of steps
behind.

“Good for you,” I whispered, as we turned in beside the haberdasher’s
shop and started up the stairs, at whose top we were forced to believe
stood the laboratory of the man we sought, the workshop of the man who
was trying to stop all war.

As we reached the second landing, Tom turned to me. “This is the
queerest mixture of fireproof and firetrap I ever heard of,” he
ejaculated. “Iron stairs and wooden landings, with two doors on each
side. Wonder if it keeps on like this all the way up?” It did; iron
stairs and wooden landings succeeded each other, till the fourth story
showed two doors, one on either side of a landing dimly illuminated by
a skylight.

“It’s one of the two,” whispered Tom.

He tried one door softly,--locked. Tried the other. To my surprise
it opened, and a bare room much like that where Tom and I had waited
through the weary hours in Bloomsbury met our view. Just at that moment
we heard a footstep clang on the iron stair below, and around the bend
the handle of a broom came into sight, followed by an arm clad in the
sleeve of a coarse jumper. The janitor halted in amazement as he saw
our phalanx of three standing in the empty room. Before he could open
his mouth, I addressed him.

“I want to rent this room,” I said. “It suits me in many ways. What’s
the rent?”

“Four pund a month, sir, thank you,” came the answer.

“Anybody else on this same story?” I asked.

“Just a Mr. Cragent, thank you, sir, who has a workshop across the way.
He’s out for good to-day, but he’s been in and out quite a bit the
few days he’s been there, thank you, sir. I think he’ll make you no
trouble, sir.”

I looked at Tom and Dorothy, who signed affirmatively. “I’ll take it,”
I said. “Shall I have to see the agent?”

“No, sir, thank you,” answered the man, “I’m the acting agent for this
one building.”

“Very well, then. Here you are.” I handed over four pounds for the
first month’s rent, and turned back to survey my new found quarters
more carefully. It was evidently one of two front rooms looking out
on the street. The other front room with the rooms in the wing which
stretched back must belong to the mysterious Cragent. Sullied with fog
and smoke, our place was a typical London office, whose gray marble
mantel and grate was the only relief to the naked walls.

The janitor, without a sign of wonder at our sudden invasion of his
premises, turned with his broom and clanged down the iron stairs. Tom,
Dorothy and I went inside and nearly closed the door, leaving it open
a crack for the purpose of observation.

“As long as we may have to be here off and on for a week or more, we
may just as well be comfortable about it,” said Tom, in a low tone.
“Two of us can stay here, while the other one goes and gets some chairs
and a little coal. You and Dorothy keep on the lookout, while I get
enough furnishings to make us comfortable for a few hours.”

“Sure thing,” I said, my heart leaping up at the chance of a short
tête-à-tête with Dorothy.

“I’m going with you, Tom,” said Dorothy. “Jim can watch alone, all
right,” and she started out on the landing ahead of her brother.

Tom threw one glance at me. “See you shortly,” he said, and followed. I
resumed my place of watching.

Half an hour passed, and Tom and Dorothy were back with porters
carrying a table, chairs and coal. In ten minutes after their arrival,
there was a brisk fire in the grate, we were comfortably disposed about
it, and the porters had departed. Dorothy sat gazing into the fire with
that same dreamy quiet which had so characterized her appearance for
the last few days. I sat watching Dorothy, and Tom was busy lighting
his pipe. Suddenly I heard a slight and repeated noise. With a sign
to Tom, I rose and tiptoed to the door. There was no one coming up. I
went to the landing and listened. No more result. Yet I had surely
heard footsteps. I went back into the room and closed the door. Tom was
beside me in a moment, pipe in hand, but, as I cast a hurried glance
about me, I saw that Dorothy had not stirred. She still sat, her head
on her hand, gazing into the glowing coals. The footsteps were louder
now, and I went to one boundary wall and then to another. There was
some one pacing up and down in Cragent’s rooms. Tom was beside me as I
bent to listen, his face the picture of eagerness.

“There must have been some one in there all the time,” I whispered.
“But if there was, I should have thought he would have been disturbed
by our moving in and would have come out.”

“The janitor told me that Cragent had not come in, and that there was
no one working with him,” muttered Tom. “I don’t see through it.”

Back and forth went the steps. Tom put his pipe in his mouth and began
smoking with long regular puffs.

“I believe there’s another entrance to these rooms,” he said finally.
“I’m going out to reconnoitre.” Silently and carefully he tiptoed out,
without Dorothy’s knowing of his departure. I brought my chair over
nearer the wall and sat down to wait.

A hush followed, broken only by the incessant low roar of the city,
that roar which to the attentive ear in its deep, firm bass is wholly
differentiated from the shrill staccato of New York, the lower, swifter
tones of Paris, or the middle-toned, ordered hum of Berlin. On the
other side of the wall the steps went on, one, two, three, four, five,
six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve, turn, one, two, three,
four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve, turn. On and
on, with unvarying regularity, marched the heavy, thrusting step that
reverberated over the old floor. Dorothy sat motionless, her eyes still
fixed upon the fire, oblivious to the world, her soft hair contrasting
with the rich fur of her coat lying draped over the back of an old
chair. I heard the slow creak of an opening door, and went softly
toward a beckoning arm in gray.

“I won’t come in,” whispered Tom excitedly, “I’ve got the trick.
There’s another entrance to his rooms. We’ll cage him between us and
get a good look at him, anyway. There’s a little office corresponding
to this on the other side, where I can wait. You stay by the bay window
and watch for me. If he comes my way, wave to me. If he comes yours,
I’ll wave to you. Gee! I haven’t had more fun for an age.”

Off Tom travelled, down the stairs, walking with an exaggerated
caution, and I turned in, smiling. Dorothy had not roused at
the interruption. I began to worry a bit about this strange
abstractedness. Could she be quite well? No, that was quite foolish,
for she seemed the picture of health. Then the footsteps took my
attention for a moment,--one, two, three, four, five, six, seven,
eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve, turn, and repeat. It was like the
trampling of feet in the “Tale of Two Cities.” The single footstep
seemed to swell into a roar of charging troops. Was this walker the man
who was trying to stop all war? Were the footsteps above and around
those of the thousands he had slain or that he was to slay? Were we
marching among the ghostly shades of the future? Were we in that
crowding throng? What dreadful mystery lay behind the wooden panels of
those windows? I fell to speculating on the appearance of the stranger
behind the wall, and always the form of the man who was trying to stop
all war took on the slight graceful form of a Southerner, and the face
was the clear swarthy face of Regnier. Try as I might, I could not give
the shadowy man we pursued any other face or form. The footsteps went
on and on.

Dorothy aroused. “Where’s Tom?” she said, looking around.

“He’s away for a moment,” I said, slightly mendaciously. “He’ll be back
shortly.”

“He ought to have told me he was going,” she said, a little
impatiently, but her reverie proved too strong for her to escape, and
she sank back into her dreamy abstraction. The twilight began to come
down as we sat watching and as I listened. As it fell, the fire’s rose
played yet more softly on Dorothy’s beautiful hands lying on the arm of
her chair, showed a bit of rounded cheek and a translucent shell-like
ear. Gradually I forgot my whole mission. The man became a ghost and
faded silently away. Tom waiting on tiptoe in the office next door was
quite forgotten. Dorothy and I and the fire. This new Dorothy, dreamy,
quiet, almost clinging, with those new depths in her eyes, was carrying
me quite beyond myself.

“Dorothy,” I said, in a low voice, “Dorothy.”

She turned. “What is it, Jim?” she said.

I tried to speak but I could not. The rushing words overwhelmed me. I
could not make myself intelligible, and I sat there shivering with the
intensity of my feeling, and yet unable to say what I wished. I found
my voice again. “Dorothy,” I began, “I want to tell you.”

Dorothy’s eyes met mine for a moment, and then her long lashes fell.
“I’ve been thinking,” she stammered--“thinking--thinking”--I bent
forward eagerly--“of our old home on Long Island Sound.” The words came
with a rush, as if she had just seized them from the air. “You never
went down there, but it is the loveliest place,” she went on hurriedly.
“The sea, in a great crescent bay, paved with the whitest sand, and an
old colonial house on a little rise.” She was talking at top speed now.

“But, Dorothy,” I broke in, “I want you to know--”

She gave me no chance to finish. “Tom has a laboratory that he has
fitted up down by the shore,” she went on, still more swiftly, the
words fairly tumbling over each other, “and we work there when we’re
not off on the Black Arrow. When we get back, I’m going straight down;
I want to see the place so badly.”

“Dorothy,” I began again.

“Oh, and did you see the account of the reception at the Ambassador’s,”
said Dorothy, as hastily as before. “They had the whole thing twisted
upside down; names all tangled up. They got Tom’s name as Professor
Thomas Orrington, and you as James.” She stopped short.

“How did they get yours?” I asked eagerly.

“Did you see that they are tearing up the embankment down by the
obelisk?” was the extremely pertinent reply. As all three of us had
spent a quarter of an hour a day or two before, watching those same
operations, it seemed probable that I had seen them.

“But, Dorothy,” I pleaded. “Just a minute, I want to--”

Dorothy sprung from her chair and started for the door. “I’m going to
find Tom,” she said.

“Stop,” I called in a low voice. “‘The man’ is on the other side of the
partition walking up and down. Listen!”

Dorothy stood still for a moment in the very poise of flight, and we
both listened intently. The roar of the city was the only sound. The
measured footsteps had ceased. When they had stopped I had no idea. I
had proved an unfaithful watcher.

“Then, for heaven’s sake, where’s Tom?” I cried, as I rushed to the
window.

Dorothy, surprised from her attitude, followed me. I gazed from the
window up and down the house fronts and street. Tom was nowhere
in sight. Dorothy leaned forward beside me to look out and in the
intoxication of her immediate presence every idea beside my wish to
tell her of my love was swept away. I seized her hand.

“Dorothy,” I exclaimed, “you must and shall hear what I am going to
say.”

Her hand, at first fluttering and striving to escape, gave up its
struggle, and she stood silent, listening, with averted head.

“Dorothy,” I began again.

At that very moment the door flew open and Tom, red and breathless,
dashed into the room. Dorothy sprang towards him like a startled fawn,
and I was left with outstretched hand, the modern Tantalus of London.
Tom was too excited to notice our positions.

“Well, I must say you are a pretty pair,” he exclaimed. “All this work
and trouble gone for nothing, because you wouldn’t take a little bit of
care at the end. You call yourself a newspaper man. There’s only one
department you could handle and that’s the Obituary column.”

“What’s the matter?” I asked, coming down to earth.

“Matter,” cried Tom disgustedly, “the whole thing’s up so far as this
clue is concerned, and we’ve got to start in all over again. I’ve seen
‘the man,’ and if you had been even reasonably alert you’d have seen
him too, and we would have him trapped.”

“You’ve seen ‘the man.’ Are you sure?” asked Dorothy breathlessly.

Tom nodded gravely. “I have, and I think for some reason that he knew
me,” he answered more slowly. “When I left you I went over to the
office on the other side and waited. I sat just where I could see if
any one opened on my side. I had been there perhaps half an hour when
the door opened, and a man in a slouch hat, whose face was hidden in
the dim twilight of the hall, stepped out. Just as he caught sight of
me, he jumped back and locked the door. ‘That’s the time for Jim,’ I
said to myself, and ran to the window and waved. I could have waved
my arm off, I believe, and you would never have known it, so when I
realized that, I hurried down and over to these stairs. On the third
flight, I heard steps coming down the fourth. I came up very softly and
there, just descending, was the man in the slouch hat. When he saw me,
he threw up his arm across his face, said what sounded to me like ‘You
again,’ and backed away into the darkness of the corner. I followed,
but before I could reach him, a door behind him flew open and he dashed
through, slamming it in my face. I flew against the door and it gave.
By the time I was in the room he was across it and out the other door.
I followed him down the stairs but lost him in the street. If you
people had been half decently on the watch, we’d have had something,
but now he knows we’re after him and he’ll simply disappear from here.
But I believe I’ve seen that chap somewhere, before. There was a queer
familiarity about him, and what did he mean by, ‘You again?’ It’s
barely possible that your old theory may be right, Jim, or it may be
that you have driven Regnier so into my head that I looked to find him
in a man I don’t know at all.”

“Well, I know,” said Dorothy, with a sudden reversion to her old
independent spirit. “It isn’t. But how did the man happen to have keys
in his hand for those doors on the story below. I don’t understand
that.”

“I don’t know, I’m sure,” said Tom. “I was in too much of a hurry to
get at the chap to pay any attention to the way he unlocked the doors.
Of course there is a bare chance that the fellow may be a harmless
citizen who mistook me for either a highwayman or a lunatic.”

“Not with the wooden panels on the windows,” said Dorothy. “Let’s go
down and look at the doors.”

Regretfully I locked the door and left the bright fire and bare-walled
room where Dorothy had come so near to listening to me. I was
disappointed,--of course I was disappointed at my carelessness in
losing the man I sought, but--Dorothy’s hand had lain in mine without
struggling that last instant of time before Tom came in. There was some
balm in Gilead. Yet delays are dangerous, and I felt I must not lose
time in following up any advantage gained.

As I turned the corner of the stairs, I heard a low exclamation from
Dorothy and Tom’s expressive whistle. They were bending over an open
door, examining the lock with a match, which Tom held shielded between
his palms. As I joined them, Tom pointed without comment at the place
where the lock had been. Its bare wood showed lighter surfaces, as the
signs had showed the marks of the handiwork of “the man,” and nail
holes that told of disappearing metal.

“How’s that for a pick lock,” said Tom. “The other one was opened in
just the same way. Cragent is the man and I saw him, but couldn’t
reach him. What a control he must have over his instrument to be
able to destroy a battleship and open the lock of a door by means of
disappearing metal.”

Dorothy shuddered. “It’s dark here and cold. I want to go back to
the hotel,” she said a little tremulously. “I’ll be all right in
the morning, and I’ll go with you after ‘the man,’ but now I’m
tired--tired.”

I think the horror of the thing shadowed us all a bit in that gloomy
old London house. The darkness of the corners, the man who had slain
so many of his fellow men separated from us by a single partition
seemed gruesome and deadening. Those footsteps pacing up and down, did
they mean more slaughter, new inventions? Was the mysterious man whom
we had sought, the familiar figure Tom had imagined; and dominating
thought of all, did Dorothy’s hand rest in mine without struggling that
last moment? There was enough to keep my thoughts at work on the way
home, even though Dorothy persistently gazed from the window of the
four-wheeler and uttered never a word.

As we left the carriage, Tom broke silence. “If you feel like it, Jim,
I think it wouldn’t be a bad plan to look up Hamerly to-night, and see
what he says to all this.”

“A good idea,” I said. “I’ll get a hasty bite and run up there. No use
in wasting time.”

“All right,” said Tom, and Dorothy, as we parted, gave me one shy
glance that sent me away in a golden maze of joy and hope.

Hamerly was out when I arrived at his lodgings, called away suddenly
for a couple of days, the maid reported. On my way back, however, I
came to one very definite conclusion. Hamerly must have seen the man
face to face in Dr. Heidenmuller’s laboratory. He could settle one
vexed question anyway. I was going to find a picture of Regnier if
there was one to be had.

I reached the Savoy to find word from Tom that he and Dorothy had gone
over to the Cecil to see some friends. I followed, leaving word at the
office that I had gone. As I stood in the corridor waiting, a page came
by, calling my name for the telephone. I took up the receiver with a
deep thrill of anticipation. “Orrington?”

“Yes.” It was one of our correspondents.

“War just declared between England and Germany. I have inside
information that the fleets will meet in the Channel, to-morrow, off
Dover. I suppose you’ll hunt your man there?”

“I’m off for the scene of battle by the first train,” I answered. “Much
obliged,” and I hung up the receiver.

As I stepped out under the great awning at the head of the courtyard,
the gayety and life of the full tide of evening was sweeping
through. Beautifully dressed women, gallant men, life and youth and
pleasure,--and to-morrow--what? Would a single one of those mighty
ships, would one of those brave sailors return? As I stood there, a
hush came. The news which I had heard had just been received. Then
came a mighty roar, “War, War, War.” Then, as it died away, out burst
a great increasing wave of song, the whole multitude joining in one
mighty chorus, “God save the King.” I saw Dorothy hastening towards me,
her lips quivering.

“Jim, have you got to go to sea?” she said stammering. “I’m so afraid
no boat will ever return,” and she ended with a sob. I could wait no
longer.

“Dear love,” I said, “I must, but I love you, dear, and if I die
to-morrow or fifty years off, I love you and you alone,” and there, as
the last bars of the song rang forth in the full tide of exaltation, as
the clamor of the crowded street outside rose to its height, Dorothy
and I came to our own.




CHAPTER XVII


As we stood there in the hush that followed the last bars of the song,
Tom came towards us. Dorothy turned to him, starry eyed, and he looked
quickly at me. I nodded. Tom smiled widely, as he stretched out his
hand.

“Nobody else in the world I’d as soon would have her, old man,” he
said, as he nearly wrung my hand off. Then turning to his sister,
“Well, little girl, so you’ve waked up at last to the real state of
things.” Dorothy clung to his arm.

“Tom, dear, I have, and I am very happy, but--” her voice broke. “It
may only be for to-night. Jim leaves at once for the fleet. He is going
out to watch the battle, and if the man sends out his waves to sink
those ships, I am afraid he’ll sink every other boat anywhere near.”

“This, my children,” said Tom, with a flowing gesture, “is where
your old uncle Thomas steps in as the benevolent fairy who saves the
handsome lover of the beautiful young princess.”

Dorothy looked at him, her whole soul in her eyes. “Tom, don’t joke.
Have you any way by which Jim can go and be safe? I can’t ask him to
stay behind for me, when he ought to go.”

“Dorothy,” said Tom seriously, “I think Jim can go and be perfectly
safe. I thought this whole business out, coming over in the boat. Not
being completely and totally blind, I foresaw the inevitable occurrence
which has inevitably occurred, and I didn’t want to lose Jim for my
own sake, as well as my sister’s. I’ve had this on my mind ever since
we left Portsmouth. I knew he’d think he ought to go; so as soon as
I reached Folkestone I had a little yacht built, a sloop with an
auxiliary motor, which hasn’t a nail in her. She’s all wood, rubber and
canvas, except the engine, and if the engine disappears there’s a set
of rubber valves that instantly closes the shaft hole. ‘The man’ can
come right up alongside, stand up and throw waves at her, and she can’t
sink. I had a wire from there to-night that she was done. They’ve been
working on her twenty-four hours a day since I started her, and she’s a
mighty nice little boat. The crew is engaged, and all Jim has to do is
take possession.”

“That ought to save the boat,” said Dorothy, shaking her head sadly,
“but how can you save Jim from the fate of Dr. Heidenmuller, or of the
men on the battleships who died as he did?”

“You never did have much opinion of my brains, Dorothy,” said Tom.
“Don’t you suppose I thought of the effect those waves would have? You
know none of the other ships in Portsmouth harbor were injured, when
the German ship disappeared. That proves that the man has some way of
directing his waves. So he may not hurt Jim at all. But I didn’t take
any chances on that. I’ve had a cage of caema built over the cockpit,
and everything is arranged so that the boat can be run without going
outside that cage.”

Dorothy heaved a sigh of relief. She bent forward and kissed Tom in the
full face of the assembly.

“Tom, you’re the finest, best man in the world, except one.”

“That’s it,” said Tom with a grin. “Second place for old uncle Thomas
now.”

“But Tom,” I said, “I follow the boat construction all right, but for
Heaven’s sake what is this caema that I’ve heard so much about, and
what’s the use of the cage?”

“Oh, I forgot you might not understand that,” said Tom. “You know, or
you ought to know, it’s in every school physics, that if you put a
cage of a conductor like copper around any instrument which is easily
affected by any electrical discharge, the electrical waves spread out,
follow the surface of the cage, and don’t penetrate the interior. The
instrument is wholly unaffected. Well, caema is the newest organic
conductor. It acts the same way with any radio-active waves. They
spread out all over it, and can’t get through. I’ve had a cage built
of it to insulate you and everything else that’s inside.”

“Why wouldn’t it work around the battleships then?” I asked.

“Because the battleships are made of steel; and if you put a cage like
that around them, they could hardly move. It only worked on your boat
because it’s wood outside.”

“Tom,” I said gravely, “I imagine your forethought and knowledge will
save my life.”

“I know it will,” said Tom cheerfully. “Now, what time do you leave?”

“In fifty-five minutes, from Charing Cross, on the Channel Express,” I
said.

“We’ll go with you to Folkestone,” said Tom.

“Of course,” said Dorothy.

A few minutes at the Savoy, a brief ride down the lighted Strand in the
midst of the noisy crowds, a moment in the rush of the station, and a
long ride in the darkness, in a full compartment, brought us back to
Folkestone.

All the way down I held Dorothy’s hand in my own. All the way down her
warm body was close to mine. Despite all Tom’s precautions, something
might go wrong, but, if it ended to-night, we had this, and hope
persisted that it would not end to-night, that, on the other hand, this
was the beginning of many happy years.

The crew of three was on board the little yacht, which looked no
different in the dark from any other boat, though, as we came alongside
in the skiff, I could just see a cage of some dark substance above the
cockpit. We entered through a latticed door toward the bow, and Tom
for half an hour examined every part of the boat with a lantern, the
caema screen most vigilantly of all. Dorothy and I sat close together,
watching the lights and their reflection in the water. All about the
pier was hurry and movement. Three tugs, bearing correspondents, passed
us as we lay at anchor, and half a dozen despatch boats and cutters.
Tom came up to us at last.

“Jim, if you keep the door of the cage fastened, nothing can happen to
you.”

“Don’t be foolhardy, though, for my sake,” said Dorothy.

“Come, Dorothy, we must go. It’s time for Jim to start,” said Tom
gently, and I strained Dorothy to my heart and felt her wet cheek
against mine.

“I’ll be back safely, dear love,” I whispered, as I helped her into the
waiting boat.

Tom wrung my hand as he left. “Jim, I’d go with you, but I think I
ought to stay with Dorothy.”

“I know you ought,” I replied, and they cast off.

As we started off into the blackness, Dorothy’s clear “Till we meet
again, dear,” were the last words that reached me.

Our London office had been able to obtain pretty definite information
as regards the whereabouts of the fleet, and our little boat was a
marvel of swiftness. So it was with no great surprise that, as the
morning dawned, I saw far ahead of me, off the port bow, the rear ships
of the squadron going slowly ahead, and shortly after came in sight of
the whole fleet. My binoculars showed the greatest spectacle I had ever
beheld. From East and West, from North and South had come the hurrying
ships to guard the coasts of the great island empire from attack. I
counted forty mighty ships as I gazed. In regular formation they went
onward, slowly, disdainfully, proudly. Somewhere to the north, beyond
that gray line which bordered my view on every side, another fleet was
coming. At best, it was to be the greatest trial of naval strength the
world had ever seen. All other naval battles would sink into obscurity
before this, in which were met the utmost resources of Germany and
England. At worst, it would be a series of dumb, helpless disasters,
as the fleet, stricken by an unseen, unknown foe, would perish. Near
me were two of the boats bearing men from the papers. The men on them
jeered as they saw our dark cage, and passed uncomplimentary remarks
on the appearance of my boat. I kept silence, watching the line of
sky and sea. Out on the farthest point, at last I saw a dot, then
half a dozen more, then more, and I counted up to thirty. Over on my
right a great splash of water rose, and a dull reverberation sounded.
Germany had fired the first shot. The flagship of the English admiral
was nearest me, on the extreme left of the line. As I watched, I saw
the great ship turn slightly, and I knew by the sound that they had
fired in return. Sight availed nothing in telling whence came the shot,
for the newest smokeless powder left no trace. The ship swung back on
her course, the great flag of the Empire hanging at her stern, scarce
lifted by the breeze. I could see figures, through my powerful glasses,
hurrying about the decks, and three or four officers on the bridge
peering through their glasses at the enemy. I had focussed wholly on
the British flagship, and watched intently for her next move. Suddenly
my lenses grew blank, and I was staring at sea and sky. The gray waves,
rising and falling, filled the field. The battleship had disappeared. I
dropped my glasses in utter amaze. I found myself once more repeating
the words of Joslinn concerning the Alaska. “Vanished like a bursting
soap-bubble.” I looked to right and left. I raised my glasses. Of all
that company of men, of all those implements of war and of destruction,
not one thing remained. Yes, there was a dark spot on a lifting wave.
Eagerly I trained my lenses on it. Now it came up on a higher wave. A
gleam of color. It was like cloth. Again it rose. It was the flag of
England. Alone it had survived.

“The man” was at work. Where would he strike next? The rest of the
fleet went on, as if no blow had come. Not by a sign did they show what
had come upon them. I glanced at my wire screen, and at my crew who
stood in a huddled group. The correspondents, in the boats nearby, were
standing with white faces, peering ahead. I turned my glasses on the
German fleet. The leading ship was coming forward, under full steam. A
shot struck just to my right, and I realized that peril might come from
other sources than from the man who was trying, no, who _was_ stopping
all war. But it was all in the game of life. My part in the game just
then was to be at that very place, and I thrust back the thought of
parting with Dorothy that, despite myself, arose.

[Illustration: I FOUND MYSELF COUNTING ALOUD. [_Page 247._ ]

Through my glasses, I gazed fixedly at the German ship as she came on.
Then, as before, came the utter blankness, the gray sky and the waves
rising and falling. One English ship and one German. Where would he
strike next? As I asked the question, another English ship disappeared
more swiftly than a cloud of light smoke scattered by the wind. I
found myself counting aloud. In a state of utter unconsciousness as
to anything else, I gazed fixedly to see which would go next. “Four,”
I counted, as a German cruiser off on the right went down. “Five!
six!” They were going at the rate of one every two or three minutes
now. “‘The man’ must be in one spot, and he has the range now,” I said
to myself, as two more ships disappeared. Those ships that remained
were firing rapidly. Now and again a shot would hit, and a cloud of
steel fly out from a turret, or a big hole appear in a side. Their
brothers were dying an awful death, the sister ships of the fleet
were disappearing before their eyes, but the men who directed those
gray bull dogs of war kept on. In a perfect frenzy of excitement, I
cheered aloud. “Oh plucky, plucky!” I cried, as the squadrons, closing
their thinned ranks, bore down on each other. Twenty had gone from
eighty-two, destroyed by this wonder-worker. Ten of the rest were in
sore straits. Shots were falling on every side of me, but, in the
mad excitement of the moment, I heeded them no more than if they had
been paper pellets. Then the death-dealing machine seemed suddenly
to accelerate its action. “Twenty-five, twenty-six, twenty-seven,
twenty-eight,” I counted slowly. The fleets never changed a point of
their course. Not by a gun was the fire slackened, save in the few
ships disabled by the enemy. The fortieth ship had disappeared for ten
minutes. Then, as by a common understanding, the fire of each side
slackened for a moment as the ships, closing up their ranks, maneuvered
for new positions. In the lessening din, I could hear the chug-chug
of the little motor of our boat. That sound always carried me back
to the night when Dorothy and I sought the man who saw the Alaska go
down. The dark Jersey shore, the little launch, and Dorothy beside me
suddenly rose before my eyes, and I was there, and not in the midst of
this awful carnage. But it was only for a moment. The pause in the work
of destruction ended almost as it began. One after another, twenty-two
ships more went down, and the antagonists, who had started with
eighty-two of the proudest ships that any empire ever sent forth, were
reduced to a shattered remnant of twenty. Then suddenly they gave way.
Flesh and blood could stand no more. Slowly, but proudly as ever, and
with no haste of flight, the Germans drew off to the north, the English
to the south. As they parted, another ship and yet another disappeared.
I groaned in impotent agony. “Spare them, spare the rest?” I cried
wildly. “Can’t you see they have given up the fight.”

Remorseless in his purpose, the man went on. Again and again, with
measured blows, he struck the retreating fleet. One by one, their
existence ended, and the now sunlit ripples of the Channel rose and
fell, where a moment before had sailed these massive hulks.

I veiled my eyes at the close, but opened them as I felt a touch on
my shoulder. “Are we to be killed too, sir?” said my skipper, with
twitching lips and corded brow, where the cold sweat stood in great
drops. “Can we go now, sir?”

I nodded numbly, and we started. The only boats in sight were two
boats of the newspapers, that had lain in apathy near us. As they saw
us start, their skippers started, too. The correspondents on their
decks sat in stricken attitudes. Not one was writing. They crouched,
huddled together, like men dying from cold. The three boats ran towards
shore, side by side. With fixed gaze I followed the one on the right.
Suddenly, she also disappeared, and I fell into a wild rage. “You fool,
you fool,” I cried, shaking my fists. “Don’t you know a non-combatant?”

The men on the boat to the left rose in an agony of alarm, shouted
incoherently, waved handkerchiefs. My fury suddenly became extinct, and
I watched them apathetically. It would be their turn next, or ours. I
had lost all faith in Tom’s protective schemes. One thing ran back and
forth in my brain. “If I had only married Dorothy before I came, she
could have worn black. Now, as it was, would she or wouldn’t she?” That
was the only thing which distressed me. They say a man awaiting instant
death thinks over all his past life. I didn’t, I only worried as to
whether Dorothy would or would not wear black.

I looked up wearily. The sea was blank. The other boat had gone. “So
you went first,” I said, calmly enough now. “I’ve always wondered what
the next world was like. Now, I’m going to know.”

Ceaselessly went the chug, chug of the engine. Back and forth into the
shuttle of my thought went the Jersey coast, and the problem of whether
or not Dorothy would wear black.

The noise ceased in an instant, and I wondered at it dully. The crew
sat heavily in the stern, the skipper holding the wheel. I could see
his brown, knotted hands white with the anguished grip with which he
clasped its rim. We lay in the long swell of the Channel in utter
silence. Of all those thousands, we were left alone, rising and falling
on the billows, absolutely without energy and without the slightest
desire to act. The motor stopped, we could hoist the main sail from the
cage, but we thought of no such thing. For minutes, which seemed like
hours, we lay there while I gazed indifferently at the water. A hoarse
cry from the skipper aroused me.

“Lookee there!” he shouted. I turned at the command and started. Scarce
a hundred yards away was the conning tower of a submarine above the
waves. Its top was open and a man’s head, the face masked with huge
goggles, faced us. As I gazed with open mouth, the head disappeared,
the top closed, and the conning tower sunk beneath the waves. I had
seen “the man.”

The sight somehow galvanized me into energy. Now I had seen that the
antagonist was a human being, and not a superhuman power, I would fight
for my life. I ordered the sail raised through the cage, taking great
care not to disturb it, and we started slowly back to Folkestone. Hours
later, as we came up towards the harbor, I saw a yacht approaching. On
the bridge were three figures. There was the flutter of a white dress
beside the man at the wheel. As they came nearer, I saw it was the
yacht I had chartered for our hunt in the Channel. The man and the girl
on the bridge were Tom and Dorothy. As they came alongside, Tom called.

“What happened?”

I raised my head. “We four are all that are left,” I said sadly.




CHAPTER XVIII


As I came over the side of the yacht, Dorothy was at the rail and in
a moment was in my arms. “Thank God! Thank God! you are back,” she
murmured. “You are back and the awful waiting is over, but how many
wives and sweethearts will wait all the rest of their lives!”

Tom was but a moment behind his sister. “Do you mean to say that every
boat, without exception, has gone?” he questioned.

“Every one within my range of vision. Between eighty and ninety in
all,” I answered.

“Good God! What a catastrophe,” said Tom dazedly. “I can’t realize it.”

My little yacht was still alongside, and the skipper now hailed us.
“Mr. Orrington, sir, could somebody else take our boat in, and could we
go with you? I think, sir, we’d feel easier, if we could go with you.”

There was something to do. In a few minutes an exchange had been made,
and my crew was on the larger yacht. As they came over the rail, Tom
met them with a low request to keep their mouths shut.

“Don’t fear us,” said my skipper. “We’re alive, that’s all we ask for.
We don’t have any call or wish to talk about it. Do we, mates?” The
other men shook their heads dumbly, and went slowly to their places.

“What became of your propeller?” asked Tom, coming back towards us.

“Disappeared. Your rubber valves closed the hole.”

“Then he tried to sink you.”

“Undoubtedly,” I answered. “It was your wooden boat and cage of caema
which saved me.”

As we made for Folkestone, we met other boats hurrying out on the
Channel. Tom had ventured out farther than any one else. One by one,
they hailed us, but our captain gave them no news and made on.

“I wish I knew what to do,” I said wearily. “I can’t write this thing.
I feel stunned and broken. I’m not sure what I ought to do, anyway. Any
ordinary or even extraordinary thing is proper journalistic stuff, but
this is too big, somehow, for individual use. Yet the one thing that
ought to be done is to get the news to the world as soon as possible.”

“I don’t know what to tell you,” said Dorothy hesitatingly. “Isn’t your
London correspondent to be in Folkestone waiting for you?”

“Yes,” I said.

“Well, ask him. You and I will go ashore, and Tom can put out with the
yacht. Then there will be no chance of the sailors’ telling anything.”

“All right,” I answered. “I don’t seem to care what happens.”

Folkestone Pier was a black mass of people looking out to sea as we
came in, and a surging crowd came towards us, as Dorothy and I landed,
while our boat, with Tom in the stern, shot back towards the yacht. Had
it not been for three or four policemen, we could not have forced our
way through the jam, but by their aid we managed to struggle through,
shaking our heads in response to the thousand questions. As the human
tide ebbed back towards the end of the pier, I heard my name and
turned. It was Maxwell, our London correspondent.

“What news?” he asked eagerly, when he reached me.

“I’ll tell you, if you’ll get us out of this crowd,” I answered.

“I’ve got a motor here. Come on,” he said, and we made our way out,
boarded the motor and started slowly off. I looked at the chauffeur.

“Run out to a quiet place where we can be alone, will you?” I said to
Maxwell.

In a few moments we had cleared the town, and were on the bluff above
the sea. There was no one around. “This will do,” I said.

As we descended, Maxwell looked questioningly at Dorothy.

“This is my fiancée, Miss Haldane,” I explained. “I forgot to introduce
you. She knows the whole story.”

Just where we paused, an iron seat faced the wide expanse of blue
and shining water, and for a moment I gazed out over the Channel and
breathed a silent prayer of thanksgiving for my escape, of remembrance
for the men who lay beneath that flood. Then I turned, and began my
story. Ere I had spoken a dozen words, Maxwell had his note book out,
writing rapidly. Throughout, he wrote without a question, without a
word. As I ended, he closed his note book slowly.

“What we want to know, Mr. Maxwell,” said Dorothy anxiously, “is the
right thing to do. Should this go straight to the paper, or ought it to
go first to the English government? You see there’s probably no living
man who saw this except Jim and his sailors, and we want to do right.
We want to do right by the men that died, and the people that remain.”

Wise, able, thoughtful, a scholar and a gentleman, a great journalist,
a man who counted among his friends the greatest men of two
countries,--no man could be found who could decide such a question
better than Maxwell. He looked at Dorothy.

“That was the very question in my mind, Miss Haldane,” he answered.
“But I think there’s only one answer. I believe we should take this
straight to the King. He is at Buckingham Palace, and I believe we
should go directly to him with the story. I have met him a number of
times, and I know we can get an audience immediately.”

“I’m very glad you think so,” I said. “How about the trains?”

“We can do it better in my car,” he replied.

Ten minutes for gasolene, and we started off. Through quiet villages
where red farmhouses stood framed in vivid green, by tower and manor
house embowered in ancient oaks, through hedge-rowed land and city
street we sped, till the rows of villas, each modelled from a single
type, showed the outskirts of London. Then, at a slower pace, we passed
through a smoky fog, across the river, by the Abbey, to the long
front of Buckingham Palace. All the way we sat silent under the heavy
burden of the news that brought the end of those long centuries of
unconquerable British power. No enemy who could be conquered had they
met. The day had come for peace, and Britain and Germany had been the
greatest sufferers in the change of epochs.

Past the red-coated sentry, to the door of the palace we drove. A few
words on a card brought a secretary with a startled face, and scarce
five minutes had elapsed before Maxwell was ushered in. Dorothy and I
remained in the car. As Maxwell left, he remarked, “Orrington, under
any ordinary circumstances, I’d ask for an audience for you, but now
there’s no time to be lost. I can get an immediate interview alone,
where I could not get one with you.”

“That’s all right,” I said apathetically, “I’m glad not to be obliged
to move.”

We waited before the palace the better part of an hour before the door
opened and Maxwell emerged. As he came towards us, I could see that
he was blowing his nose vigorously, and that his eyes were moist. He
got into the car without a word, but as we swung over the bridge into
the Park, Maxwell made his first remark, staring off into vacancy, “I
always thought the King was about the finest man that England held. Now
I know it.”

That was all I ever learned of the interview, but, as we came by the
Abbey, I heard a newsboy crying, “Destruction of the fleets,” and I
looked inquiringly at Maxwell. He nodded in reply, “We published it
first. I telephoned the news from the palace.”

Weary and sad as I was, broken with the horror of the day, my purpose
had become stronger than ever before. As we ran slowly through
Whitehall and around to the Savoy, the thoughts of the past were
disappearing in cogitations as to the effect this would have upon our
search for “the man.” Though every battleship in the world was sunk, my
purpose held good. I would find the destroyer.

The next morning came a startling announcement. The King of England,
the President of the United States, the President of the French
Republic, the Mikado of Japan, and the Czar of Russia issued an
immediate call for representatives of all nations to assemble at
The Hague to consider the question of disarmament. That, in itself,
differed but little from the other summonses which had resulted in
academic discussions, but the paragraph which succeeded the call was
one of the most extraordinary the world had ever seen. The five rulers
who issued this invitation each pledged himself to do everything in his
power to bring about complete disarmament, and to end war in the whole
world. In view of the urgency of the situation, the meeting was to be
held in a month at The Hague.

It was soon learned that the initiative in this step had come from the
King of England, that the four other rulers had gladly joined with
him in the action, when asked concerning it by wireless, and that
the Emperor of Germany had been invited to make one of the number,
but had refused. That seemed to leave Germany as the stumbling-block
in the way. Complete disarmament was wholly possible if every nation
were to agree. If a single powerful nation refused to disarm, it
became practically an impossibility,--for no nation would give up her
defenses, with a powerful armored foe at her gates.

I had scarcely finished reading the account in the morning paper, as a
waiter approached with a wireless message from the office. “Take three
weeks’ vacation, and then go to Hague as special correspondent for
peace conference.”

“Confound it!” I ejaculated, as I read the missive. “Look at this,” and
I passed the paper over to Tom and Dorothy. Tom’s face fell.

“Of course it’s a good thing in a way,” said Tom, “but it takes you
right off the track of ‘the man.’”

“I refuse to go off the track,” I said warmly. “I’m going to wire them
back refusing this.”

“Oh, I wouldn’t do that,” interrupted Dorothy eagerly. “You stand
almost, or quite as much of a chance to get news of ‘the man’ at the
peace conference, as elsewhere. We can take the wave-measuring machine
right over to The Hague, and work from there. Besides, I want the three
weeks’ vacation.”

“Better take the vacation, and put it in with me down at Cambridge,”
remarked Tom. “They’re doing some work in one of the colleges that
might help me with the Denckel machine. I’d like to watch it awhile,
and see its bearing on the case. Dorothy would have enjoyed it once,
but now she’s hopeless. You two can come down, though, and roam round
for three weeks there, as well as anywhere else. It’s a jolly country,
and we’ll have a good time.”

“Well, if you feel convinced it’s the thing to do, I’ll do it,” I said
resignedly. “But I want to put in three weeks here in London, getting
things together. We’ve never run down that Cragent clue yet.”

“You are neither of you going to do any such thing,” remarked Dorothy
firmly. “I’ll tell you what you are going to do for the next three
weeks. You’re going to Paris with me.”

“Oh, pshaw!” said Tom disgustedly. “Paris is a hole. I want to go to
Cambridge. Do you like Paris, Jim?”

“Not particularly,” I said, with some hesitation, “but then--”

“We’re going,” said Dorothy.

“What for?” said Tom argumentatively.

“Well, if you must know,” said Dorothy blushing, “I want to shop.”

Tom burst into a roar of laughter, and I looked at him in bewilderment.
He leaned over towards me.

“Got the cards engraved yet, Jim?”

Dorothy blushed still more. I saw a sudden light.

“Of course we go to Paris,” I said enthusiastically. “It’s the place of
places.”

“And you’ll sit round for hours, waiting in a dinky little cab or
in a motor car on the Boulevard Haussmann, while Dorothy spends her
patrimony inside. Is there a special duty on trousseaux, Dorothy?” he
asked, with an affectation of seriousness.

“I wish you’d stop,” said Dorothy emphatically.

“All right,” said Tom. “Only I thought I’d better wire my banker to see
if my balance would leave us anything to go home on.”

Three weeks in Paris, hours when I sat and smoked outside big shops
and little shops, afternoons in the Bois, little “diners à trois” at
great restaurants, life, and light, and joy. Three weeks with Dorothy,
then the day express to The Hague, and a week of watching the arrival
of the envoys, while Tom, who had run across an old assistant of Carl
Denckel’s, set up the wave-measuring machine, and spent his days
working over it, in an attempt to widen its scope and bring it nearer
to its ever present mission. It still remained our chief reliance for
our search.

Anxious as I was to return to the quest of “the man,” the work at The
Hague proved fascinating in the extreme. My daily report told of the
coming of representatives from almost every nation, and, best of all,
told of the free and full powers given them to agree to complete
disarmament, provided it could be universal. Day after day, in the
month which intervened between the calling of the convention and the
opening of the meeting, had come reports of parliaments and congresses
hastily gathered together to consider the question, and of their eager
passing of favorable votes. One by one they came, till every nation
had joined in consent, save one. Germany still held aloof. Since the
disappearance of the fleets, the German emperor had made no movement to
advance the war, but kept his armies gathered, his transports riding at
anchor in the ports. The Reichstag met, and discussed most favorably
the call to The Hague, waiting anxiously for some sign from its
imperial master, but none came. In absolute seclusion, in a lone castle
in the depths of the Black Forest, he sulked like Achilles in his tent.

The first day of meeting came with every power represented save
Germany. The second and third passed with no sign from Berlin. On the
fourth, I began to see signs of difficulty. It was evident that the
consent of the German empire was a _sine qua non_. Delegate after
delegate arose and expressed the eager desire of his country to disarm
and bring about universal peace, provided (and the provided was
emphatic) all other nations did the same. On the evening of the fourth
day, an American delegate rose, and by a powerful speech so roused the
assembly that a delegation was appointed to meet the German Emperor and
ask him, in the name of the conference, to join with the other nations.
After the delegation was named, the meeting adjourned for three days,
until they could return.

On the night when the delegates were to return, I was in my place in
the correspondents’ section of the hall of the conference. The meeting
came to order, the preliminary business was finished, and the presiding
officer arose to say that the delegates had been delayed in returning,
but had telegraphed that they would be there within an hour. He had
scarcely finished speaking, when a door opened, and a marshal announced
“The delegation sent to His Majesty the Emperor of Germany.”

Travel-worn and weary, the five men walked up the aisle to the space
at the front. “Gentlemen, are you ready to report?” said the presiding
officer.

“We are,” said the head of the delegation. “The Emperor of Germany
refused absolutely to see us, pleading an indisposition. We were unable
to obtain any satisfaction.”

The grave assembly rose like the sea. Shouts, cries, requests for
recognition, came in one clamorous volume, and the president sounded
his gavel fiercely. The excitable Latins were shouting recriminations.
It looked as if the seething mass would break up in utter disorder,
and the great conference would end without result. Far off by the door,
I could see a marshal forcing his way through the crowded aisles,
imploring, struggling, fighting. He reached the rostrum, mounted it,
and spoke in the president’s ear. With a tremendous effort, he shouted,
“Silence for important news.” Little by little, the crowd stilled. In
a resonant voice came the words, “An envoy from the Emperor of Germany
desires to address the conference in person.”

A hush came over the assembly, a hush so sudden, so profound, that
I could hear the scratching of the fountain pen with which the
secretary before the president wrote the words. The aisles cleared,
and the ordered assembly sat silently in their seats. The great door
opened and, preceded by a corps of marshals, the envoy from the great
Hohenzollern entered. The stiff, unbending figure, the haughty head,
the piercing eyes and high, upturned moustache of the field marshal
envoy showed his imitation of his master, the war lord. Proudly, as on
parade, he paced to the space where the president, who had descended to
the floor to greet him, stood. He bowed coldly and turned.

“My master has sent me here,” he said abruptly, “to address your
conference. These are his words, ‘I have believed that war, that
armies made for the best good of my state; I believe it still. I do
not believe in peace. But I cannot expose my navy to destruction, my
sailors and my soldiers to death. I therefore agree to peace. My armies
shall disband, my fortifications be torn down, my battleships sunk or
turned to peaceful ends. My Reichstag will have confirmed my words ere
now.’”

As one man, the assembly arose and cheered. Never, in his own city or
from his own troops, came heartier greetings than that which rung out
for the last ruler to take up the cause of peace. The field marshal
stood there, while the tumult raged, his hands resting on the hilt of
his sword, erect as ever, impassive as ever. As the cheering ended, he
bowed to the assembly. Turning, he bowed to the president, and then,
with martial step, he slowly withdrew. The delegates from Germany
arrived the next day with power to disarm, and the business of signing
the agreements and plans of disarmament went on so rapidly that the
conference was able to adjourn in but a few days’ time.

The day the conference closed, I rushed back from the telegraph office
the moment I had sent off the last word of my final despatch. I found
Tom and Dorothy in the laboratory. “There, thank goodness,” I cried
exultantly, “that’s over. Now I can go back to the hunt for ‘the man’
with an easy conscience. What do you think that next move ought to be?”

“Hold on, till we finish this,” said Tom. “We’ll talk things over as
soon as I get this screw set.”

I watched him idly as he worked. “What is he trying to do now?” I asked
Dorothy.

Just as I spoke, Tom moved his hand, the low buzz of a Ruhmkoff coil
broke in on the silence of the room, and the glorious beauty of the
tube of unknown gas that we had found in Heidenmuller’s laboratory
illumined the place.

“Why, there’s the gas tube,” I cried in amazement.

“Yes,” said Dorothy. “From that tube has come a marvellous development
of the Denckel apparatus. Tom has been able to receive with it right
along, but never send. One day he thought of placing that tube of gas
in the circuit, and now he can send, as well as receive. Tom has done a
big thing. He can reverse the action of the machine, not only receive
a message from any place, but shoot a wireless back across space,
and have it strike exactly where he wishes. It’s really a wonderful
development, but I don’t see how it’s going to help us find ‘the man,’
and I don’t want to give up. There, Tom is finishing. We’ll talk things
over now.”

“If ‘the man’s’ crusade were not over, it might be even more
effective,” I remarked reflectively. “It would have been strange enough
if we had found him by means of the gas released from metal destroyed
by his terrific power.”

“It would have been,” answered Dorothy.

I stood watching Tom, as, pipe in mouth, he set the revolving belt in
motion and watched the moving cylinders.

“To what strength of wave is it adjusted?” I asked.

“I’ve put it on the high,” said Tom. “It’s fixed for ‘the man’s’ waves.
I’ve got one new dodge, though, among others. I have it arranged so
I could have told at any time whether ‘the man’ was sinking a ship
or just experimenting. It’s so delicate that when his waves strike a
ship, the machine can tell it by the slight loss in power. See here,”
he turned on the switch in its revolution, “it’s this.” Flash went the
beam.

A groan burst from Dorothy’s lips. “He’s at it again. There’s a ship
gone down.”

Tom’s face was ghastly. “That’s right,” he said. “Where is he?”

Five minute’s calculation brought it.

“He’s in Tokio,” said Dorothy.

Tom nodded. “What a fiend to have loose in the world. Here his mission
is accomplished and war is over, and he keeps on.”

Dorothy sprang from her chair. “No, it isn’t that. I’m sure of it. He
doesn’t know that war is over. It must be that. We must tell him of
it.”




CHAPTER XIX


“What is your idea, Dorothy?” asked Tom gravely. This last catastrophe,
coming when all danger from the man who had stopped all war seemed
past, had sobered us all.

“You said there was a mast with wires beside the conning tower of the
submarine, that time you saw ‘the man,’ didn’t you, Jim?” she asked.

I nodded.

“Well, that mast was the aerial of a wireless. I don’t know what he
uses it for, but apparently he has one. Now that we have the Denckel
apparatus fixed to send waves to any given point, we can send off waves
of all kinds to Tokio, calling him and recalling him, until we get
a wave which his receiver will take. Then we can set up a straight,
wireless receiving station here to take his answer.”

“What will you say to him?” Tom asked.

“I’ll just say,--‘To the man who stopped all war. War is over. All
nations are disarming. Reply to us.’”

“It’s worth trying, anyway,” said Tom, with an air of finality. “I’ll
go right to work setting up a receiving plant. I can do that, all
right, but I can’t send Morse through our machine.”

“If you’ll look out for the construction end of it, I can send Morse
over an ordinary key,” I suggested.

“Then that’s settled,” said Tom. “I can set up a wireless that will
receive any waves sent from Japan, and I can set up a duplicate of the
wave-measuring machine that will send messages straight to Tokio, by
means of an ordinary Morse key. Where had we better run our aerial?”

“Down by the shore,” said Dorothy. “We want to avoid the interfering
action of the currents that are loose in and around the city.”

“There’s one thing you’ve forgotten,” I interposed. “If ‘the man’ is in
a submarine, your message may not reach him under water.”

“He’ll spend most of his time on the surface,” said Tom. “With a
first-class submarine he could spend two months under water at a time,
but he wouldn’t want to.”

“Don’t spend any more time in discussion, boys,” interrupted Dorothy.
“We must reach him the first moment possible, before any other ship
goes down. Meanwhile, Jim, you want to get this to the paper, don’t
you?”

“I surely do,” I responded, and I hurried off to wire the London
office. I sent my telegram over our private line, and waited for the
answer. In five minutes it came back.

“Too late, this time, my boy. Japanese first-class battleship
disappeared in broad daylight in the harbor of Tokio. They sent it on
here immediately, and we have had it for some minutes. Rest on your
laurels.” Signed, Maxwell.

“Well,” I thought to myself, as I returned, “I can afford to rest on
my laurels. There’s not a country in the civilized world where my name
is not known to-day.” My mail was full of requests for interviews,
for magazine articles, for lecture tours. I was a made man, and as I
mused on these things I walked on somewhat more proudly than my wont,
but as I thought over the experiences of the last months, saw in what
an extraordinary fashion fortune had played into my hands, saw how
Tom Haldane had saved my life by his shrewd foresight and scientific
knowledge, and saw, most of all, how I had profited by my dear girl’s
quick wit, I became far more humble. Most of all, I had not yet
accomplished the one thing I set out to do. I had not found the man who
was stopping all war. He still eluded me, and still was carrying on
his dread work. I reached our hotel feeling that I was really a very
ordinary mortal, after all.

While I had been gone, events had been moving swiftly. Some miles out
from The Hague, there was a little inn on the shore among the dunes
over beyond Scheveningen to which we had twice motored down during
the conference. Thoroughly comfortable, a favorite meeting place in
summer for the artist colony about the watering place, it was now
almost wholly deserted, because of the lateness of the season. We felt
it would make ideal headquarters for our work, and soon established
ourselves there. Tom was never more in his element than when assembling
apparatus, or when controlling men. Here was his chance to do both.
Like magic, the tall mast reared its height among the dunes, while
coils, wires, and instruments fell swiftly into place. Acting chiefly
as a burden bearer, I ran to and fro, while Tom and Dorothy, with their
assistants, brought things to completion. As I came in from a final
staying of the aerial, Tom turned to me, wiping the sweat of honest
toil from his face.

“All ready, Jim,” he said. “If you’ll start a message over that wire,
we’ll send it through the ether by means of Denckel’s machine, and
drop it straight on Tokio. Hold on a minute, though. Let me call up
my assistant on the wave-measuring machine, and see if he has heard
anything.”

A rapid conversation over the telephone we had installed, resulted. Tom
turned back to me.

“As yet, I’m thankful to say, nothing happened. ‘The man’ has evidently
been experimenting this morning, and was experimenting this afternoon.
He’s right off Tokio, still. Go ahead.”

I pressed the key and the vibrant discharge rattled from pole to pole.
Over and over again I gave the call. “To the man who has stopped all
war.” Over and over again I hurled my message out across half a world.
For an hour I repeated the call, my eyes and ears waiting for some
response from the sounder at my left.

“Let’s shift the wave strength,” said Tom, and they made a hurried
series of adjustments. Once more I took up my task, and at five minute
intervals for three hours sent out my call. Again and again we changed
the strength of the wave. We struggled with the insensate metal till
our heads reeled. At last, about ten o’clock, we gave up for the day.
Dorothy and Tom both were worn out, and both went to their rooms. My
head felt too feverish to sleep, so I wandered out for a final pipe
along the shore, struggling with the old problem which had been the
theme of my thoughts for so long,--who was “the man,” and how could I
find him? Again and again Regnier came to my mind, as I debated the
pros and cons of the ever vexing question. Along the sand, beside
the black water, over dune, and through the long wiry grass of the
hollows I tramped, till the lights of Scheveningen were just ahead.
Neither moon nor stars shone forth, and my feet fell noiselessly on
the yielding sand. As I crossed the summit of a dune, I stumbled on
the prostrate body of a man lying there looking out to sea. I hastened
to utter apologies in French, English and German, but the unknown
simply bowed courteously, and started back in the direction from which
I had come. “Some smuggler, I presume,” I said to myself. “For want
of anything better to do, I may as well dog his steps.” On and on in
the blackness went my stranger, his head bowed as if in deep thought.
By beach and road I followed, till, to my surprise, as we came up to
the door of the inn, the man ahead entered without once turning round.
I hurried after him, but the only occupant of the wide hall was the
proprietor. Mustering my best French, I asked news of the man who had
entered.

“An Englishman,” said my host, “mad, a little touched here;” he laid an
expressive finger beside his head. “He has been with me for two months.
He eats and stays all day in his room. He goes at night and looks at
the sea.”

An Englishman! Strange he had not replied to me. But weightier matters
oppressed me, and I went to bed, only to pass a troubled night, haunted
strangely by my chance acquaintance. Throughout the night he led me
in a mad chase, always seeming about to turn into some one I knew and
wished to see, but always at the moment of recognition, when I was
about to cry his name, he faded, changing into a gigantic, cloudy,
unfamiliar form.

The morning brought a messenger from the city with our mail, and we
each found a package of letters beside our plate at breakfast. One
postmarked London and addressed to me in my own handwriting, I seized
and opened eagerly. It was from Hamerly. I had sent him a photograph of
Regnier, which I had received only a week before.

“Dorothy,” I said, “here is a letter from Hamerly about Regnier. As you
know, I sent him that picture.”

“Read it, please,” requested Dorothy.

I obeyed.

    “HALF MOON STREET,
    ”LONDON, Nov. 2d, 19--.

  “DEAR ORRINGTON:--The man who came out of Dr. Heidenmuller’s locked
  room is not the man of your picture. Both are tall and dark, but
  there the resemblance ends. No allowance for the changes of a year
  could make them the same. I am sorry that the clue from which you
  hoped so much should have ended in a _cul de sac_. I see by the
  papers that the possessor of this dread power has not ceased his
  awful work. The country here is in a state of wild excitement and
  fear over the sinking of the Japanese battleship. I sincerely trust
  that you may soon be successful in your quest.

    “Yours fraternally,
    “EDGAR HAMERLY.”

“I knew it,” said Dorothy, with conviction. “I’ve told you he wasn’t
‘the man,’ from the very first.”

“Well,” ejaculated Tom, stirring his chocolate viciously, “I wish to
blazes he was, or at least that we could find out who it is, and make
him understand that he’s a blamed fool.” Drinking his chocolate, Tom
rose with the remark, “Now I’m going to find out whether the Denckel
apparatus has recorded anything new during the night.” A few minutes
later he returned, with a negative shake of his head. “Nothing,” he
said. “Let’s get to work.”

That day passed as had the preceding afternoon and evening. Twelve
times an hour I sent forth the call. As each hour struck, Tom changed
the strength of the wave. The morning passed, the long afternoon waned,
and the early night came on. Monotonously, as I pressed the key, my
thoughts would range outward into space, peering, searching, striving
to find some way to reach the man. My only occupation was the watching
of the clock, for Tom and Dorothy were working hard in the next room on
plans for altering the wave-measuring machine in such a way as to make
it even more effective.

Directly beneath the clock on the wall, a window looked out to sea. As
the evening wore on towards night, a storm rose, and the fierce wind
of late autumn drove the breakers with a resounding roar on the long
beach. I marked the hour, as the storm reached its height,--9.05. I
sent my message, 9.10. I sent it again, and as I raised my eyes from my
key I looked at the window. There, pressed against the pane, was the
face of a man we had long sought. I leaped to my feet.

“There’s Regnier!” I cried, pointing at the window. The face
disappeared as I spoke, and Tom and Dorothy, springing from their
chairs, looked out through the panes at the storm. In the hush of the
night the sound of breakers bore in on us insistently.

“Wild as a loon,” said Tom, shaking his head mournfully in my direction.

“Where was he?” asked Dorothy.

“Right outside that window!” I shouted. “Come, we must find him.”

We all started for the outer air, but before we could leave the room,
the door opened and Richard Regnier entered. Mental trouble showed in
his unquiet look and in his hesitating hand.

“Why, Dick,” began Tom, but Dorothy, with an emphatic gesture,
commanded silence.

“I beg your pardon,” said Regnier slowly, and with evident difficulty.
“I saw you through the window, and I thought somehow I might have known
you once, and that you could tell me who I am.”

Her eyes shining with pity, Dorothy spoke gently. “I’m so glad to see
you, Richard. Don’t you remember you are Richard Regnier, and that I am
Dorothy Haldane? You know Tom, here, my brother, well, and this is Jim
Orrington whom you met one night in Washington.”

At Dorothy’s low voice, the clouded brow cleared. The curtain rolled
from the darkened eyes, and the bent form straightened. “Thank God. I
am Richard Regnier. But where am I, and how did I get here?” he asked.

“You are on the coast of Holland, near The Hague,” responded Dorothy
quietly. “I don’t know how you got here.”

“How did you come to be here?” asked Regnier eagerly.

“We came to The Hague to the Peace Congress, and we came down here to
try to find the man who has stopped all war,” answered Dorothy.

“The man who destroyed the Alaska and the Dreadnought Number 8?”
queried Regnier, in great excitement. “I have known nothing since that
time. Has he done anything since?”

“Many things,” said Dorothy sadly. “He is doing great harm now, and
that is why we are trying to reach him. We ought not to lose a minute
more, Jim. If you and Tom will go to work again, I will sit down and
tell Richard about the happenings of the last two months.”

Back we went to our tasks and, as I pounded out the message, waited
five minutes and pounded it out again, I thought of the strange
suspicion under which Regnier had lain. I had believed him the man who
had sunk every battleship on that fatal day. I had felt convinced that
he was the man for whom we had searched so diligently for weeks. And
while we searched, he had been wandering along the sands of the Holland
coast.

Regnier and Dorothy had sat for perhaps half an hour in earnest
conversation, when they rose and came over to us.

“Tom,” said Dorothy, “Dick has had more experience with wireless
apparatus than you have. Suppose you let him look over the whole
business.”

“Glad enough to have him,” answered Tom. “It’s always possible there
may be an error somewhere.”

Step by step, Regnier examined the transmitting end of the apparatus,
passed from the house to the aerial, came back, and went over the
receiving end in every part. As he ended, he straightened up.

“If you don’t mind, Tom, I’d like to change that coherer a little. I
should judge that your transmitter was all right, but I question if
you could get a reply from Tokio through the coherer, as it now stands
connected with that sounder.”

“Go ahead,” said Tom, and I rose from my seat and went over beside
Dorothy, while Regnier worked at the powdery mass in the glass tube.
He took up the tube at last and held it to the light.

“There, let’s try that,” he said, and placed the tube in its supports,
screwing up the terminals. Scarcely had he made the last turn when the
sounder broke forth. Clickety clack, clack, clack, clack. Dots and
dashes came with the rapidity of a practised sender. Swiftly I read
them off, as they came to my telephone receiver.

“I am the man who is trying to stop all war. Is your news true? What do
you want of me? Why don’t you answer?”

I jumped to my seat beside the key, and sent the answer out into the
ether about us.

“We have only just got your answer through the receiver. Our news is
true. All the nations are disarming. Why do you not cease sinking
battleships? Your purpose is accomplished.”

I had scarcely ended when the reply came back.

“When did the nations agree on peace? Who are you?”

“The nations agreed on peace and made a solemn covenant that all would
disarm ten days ago. The four sending this message are Professor Thomas
Haldane and Miss Dorothy Haldane of New York, Richard Regnier of
Savannah and James Orrington of New York.”

There was a perceptible pause this time, before the sounder resumed its
motion. Then it began.

“I believe what you say. Are the nations living up to their agreements
as to disarmament?”

“Completely,” I replied. “Every one of the nations is living up to
the agreement in spirit and in truth. The greatest anxiety which the
world feels at present is with regard to your sinking the Japanese
battleship, and from fear of your future action.”

There was a long pause, and then the words came slowly.

“How can I allay that fear?”

I had been rapidly reading my sendings and my answers to the other
three who sat looking eagerly at the sounder. As I read off that last
question, Dorothy spoke up eagerly.

“If he can communicate with us by wireless, why can he not send a
message in the same way to all countries?”

I passed on the suggestion, and slowly this answer came back.

“I will send this message to the ruler of every country. I send it to
you first, for you have saved me from causing death unnecessarily. ‘The
man who has stopped all war now declares unto you that since peace has
come, since every nation is now disarming, he will cease his labors.
The ships of the nations may now sail the seas without harm from him.
The sailors shall be safe from his hand. This will he do, if peace be
sure and disarmament be complete. But, on the day that any nation
violates its solemn oath and arms its citizens, on that day will he
rise, and no ship, be it battleship or peaceful merchantman, bearing
that country’s flag, shall be safe from destruction.’”

The sounder ceased its clamor. Tom spoke in a low voice, as if he
feared to be overheard.

“How can we tell he is the man and not some one else, who is simply
playing with us? We can’t afford to take risks. Ask him, Jim, how we
can know that he is really the man who has stopped all war.”

I turned to my key and sent off the question. Back came the answer.

“By the first letter which I erased and which was found, you shall know
me.”

“That settles it in my mind,” I said. “That’s known to not more than a
dozen people, and none of them would be sending this.”

Tom, meanwhile, had stepped into the next room, and was talking quietly
to his assistant. He spoke to me. “Keep him going a minute, Jim. I want
to get a message from him.”

“Is there anything more you wish to know?” I asked the man by wireless.

“Nothing,” he replied. “Do you wish to say anything to me?”

I could hear Tom’s excited voice.

“Got it?”

“Just once more, Jim,” he said.

“There is nothing more,” went out from the aerial.

“Then I thank you for telling me of this. You have spared me and spared
others much by your wisdom. Good-bye.”

“Good-bye,” I ended, as Tom stepped from the ’phone, his face beaming.

“Quickest thing on record, that. I got my man to set the machine for
the wireless waves ‘the man’ is using, and got two records, both from
Tokio. That settles it, once for all.”

The storm was still at its height. The house rocked with the wind, but
the wild moan of the breakers, forgotten while we talked with the man
on the other side of the world, now made their presence manifest. The
single light within shone on blackened beam and rough hewn settle, into
dim but spotless corners, on glistening tile and dark polished floor.
Our little group in modern costume, standing about the table where the
instruments were placed, seemed an anachronism. We should have been
garbed like Rembrandt’s models, and in place of key, relay and coherer,
there should have been simply one massive oaken table.

Tom turned to Regnier. “Do you know, Dick, what happened to your head?”

“Sh,” said Dorothy, looking quickly at Regnier.

Regnier smiled as he saw her movement. “You needn’t worry, Dorothy. I
shall be very glad to tell you all I can.” He turned to Tom. “I think
the injury to my head came from the man who stopped all war.”




CHAPTER XX


“You don’t mean that literally,” exclaimed Tom.

Regnier nodded quietly. “I mean that I believe my memory was
deliberately taken from me by the man who stopped all war, when he
found I was on the track of his secret. But it’s rather a long story,
and it’s well on towards morning. Shall we have it now, or put off the
tale till to-morrow?”

“To-night, by all means,” answered Tom. “That is, providing you feel up
to it.”

“I feel perfectly fit now,” said Regnier, “so if you all want to hear
it, I’ll go back to the very beginning and tell it all.”

We settled down to listen. Tom threw some coal, with a lavish hand,
into the small firepot of the great Dutch stove.

“Now this is cosy. Go ahead, Dick, with your yarn.”

Dorothy beside me on the big settle gave my hand one squeeze, and
echoed Tom’s words. “Go ahead, Dick.”

All the lights had been lowered, save for a single bracket lamp, which
shone on Regnier’s melancholy but expressive face. As he began, the
storm changed its key, and came in steady, driving force rather than in
great gusts.

“It really began that night at Mrs. Hartnell’s,” he said reflectively.
“I was tremendously impressed by that second letter which came out from
beneath the visible one and, try as I would, I could not shake off a
feeling that the message was true; that the man who wrote possessed
some strange and awful power, which would make it possible for him to
do what he threatened. When I left you that night, I could not sleep. I
looked at the problem from every side, and finally analyzed it down to
this. If ‘the man’ is to do this, he must either be a great scientist
himself, or have obtained his secret from some great scientist.
I went further. I made up my mind that the most probable line of
work to produce such a destroying agent would be along the lines of
radio-active experiments. In consequence, I went directly to work,
and with the help of two assistants, I reviewed all the literature of
radio-active matter which had appeared in the last five years, and made
a digest of the papers, their subjects and their authors. Then came my
time of sailing for abroad, and I took the digest with me. I spent most
of my time on the way over in a systematic sorting out of the men who
had made the greatest advances, and who would be the most likely to
obtain some great result. I finally narrowed my choice down to five.
One of the five was Heidenmuller. He had published his last paper in
the _Zeitschrift fur Physicalische Chemie_ in April, 19--, and had
published nothing since. As soon as I landed I hastened to get a file
of the magazine, and found that in a somewhat deeply technical paper
he had spoken of the possibility that a radio-active agent, powerful
enough to give an ultimate resolution of any metal, might be obtained.
That was enough for me; I started straight for London and Heidenmuller.
As you know, I found him dead, but I heard the story of his death and
I knew by that time that if he had possessed the secret, he must have
passed it on to some one else. So I went to work. I did not look up
Swenton because I found that Heidenmuller’s first assistant, Griegen,
had gone as wireless operator on one of the big yachts then at Cowes.
So I went down there, chartered a small yacht, and spent a week hunting
for Griegen. I think I wrote you from there,” he said to Dorothy.

“You did,” she replied.

Regnier went on. “Well, to cut that short, I hired Griegen to come
back to London with me, to make a thorough search of Heidenmuller’s
laboratories, which I had hired just as they stood. We hunted for two
days without avail when, one afternoon, I went down to the city to do
some errands. I came back to my lodgings to find Griegen there greatly
excited. He had found the secret panel in the inner locked room which
you found empty, but when he discovered it the drawers held pamphlets
and manuscripts. He had not examined them, as I had given him strict
orders not to do so, and his training in the German army had made him
ready to obey the orders of his superiors absolutely. I felt that I
was on the road to victory, and I wished to read those papers alone,
so I told Griegen I should go up there at once, and that he might be
free for the evening. After dinner, I was delayed for an hour or two,
and reached the laboratory only as darkness was setting in. In my
excitement, I must have forgotten to lock the door after me. I went
at once to the inner room, turned on the incandescents, which I had
had installed, found the panel easily, pressed the spring, opened the
little door whose lock Griegen had already broken, and saw before me
a set of four drawers. They were filled with manuscripts. I began at
the top and read the titles one by one. Through three drawers filled
with the record of various researches in radio-active matter and
energy I passed. I opened the fourth. There was what I sought. Written
in crabbed German script, on the top first page of the series, was
the title. Translated, it read thus: ‘A determination of a new type
of radio-active energy which effects the ultimate decomposition of
matter.’ I seized the papers eagerly and, as I knelt there, began the
preamble. I had hardly read a dozen words, when the lights suddenly
went out. I started up, the manuscript in my hands, but, as I rose, I
was struck down and half stunned by a blow in the head. To my dazed
brain a giant seemed towering far above me, as the room opened to
immeasurable distances, and I heard what seemed a sonorous voice, but
what was probably the low tones of the man who stopped all war. ‘It is
not safe to have the secret in other hands than mine. For this mission
was I doomed,’ and I smelt a strange odor, faintly recalling some of
the anaesthetics which belong to the higher orders of the methane
series. Then I knew no more.

“I woke here in Holland, without memory of my name, without the
slightest knowledge of where I was. Here I have remained, till you came
to bring me back to life and to my senses once more.”

He ended, and as fitting climax to his strange tale, the lamp flickered
out, and the continuous long roll of the storm surged in once more in
the fierce tattoo of its full fury.

We sat silent for some time, our only light the red ends of our cigars.
Then Tom spoke.

“Anyway, I devoutly trust it’s all over now. The end has been
accomplished, and the world will be the better for it in the end. Yet
it has been at a fearful cost.”

“Yes,” said Regnier, “but a single great war would have meant the
death of many thousands more.”

“One thing I should like to know,” said Tom reflectively, “How do you
account for your loss of memory?”

“I’m not sure,” answered Regnier, “but, if you remember, there was
a paper published by some Germans a while ago, which discussed the
properties of an anaesthetic which produced a loss of memory. It was
one of the hydrocarbon compounds, and from the odor which came to me, I
think my loss of memory may have come that way.”

“That’s a possible solution,” said Tom. “At least it will do, unless we
strike a better. But, confound it all, we haven’t got ‘the man’ who has
been at the bottom of all this.”

“Well, the search isn’t over yet,” interrupted Dorothy. “We can go on
with it, now.”

“We will go on with it,” I broke in. “But I think we can do it much
better from New York for a while.”

Tom laughed. “Yes,” he said. “There is no question that as long as
Dorothy has made up her mind to be married in New York, New York is the
one place from which to conduct the search for the present. Anyway, I’m
not going to Tokio. I imagine ‘the man’ will come right back home now.”

“The Denckel apparatus was the means that stopped ‘the man,’ after
all,” I said musingly. “It has done so much, that I hope it will do the
final thing of all, and discover ‘the man.’”

Dorothy rose. “I hope it will,” she remarked. “But, anyway, we’ve sat
long enough. Now the thing I want to know is what our host has to say
of the way Dick came here.”

That was the question of the next morning, but the innkeeper could tell
us little. Regnier had arrived in the company of an Englishman who had
paid his board for three months, had told them to take especial care
of the patient, and had left a package for him. That was all he knew.
Regnier seized the package given him, and opened it eagerly. Two inner
envelopes came next, and from the innermost he drew a package of five
pound notes. He counted them.

“‘The man’ didn’t intend to have me starve,” he said. “Here’s two
hundred pounds. He must have given them to me, for I didn’t have five
pounds in my pocket that night.”

When the messenger came from the city with the morning papers, we read
them with avidity. ‘The man’ had kept his word. Every government had
received a wireless message couched in practically the same words as
that which he had sent us. The world might rest easy, as long as peace
reigned. We met in the wireless room after breakfast.

“May as well go to work taking this thing down,” said Tom.

Our work at The Hague was over, and we hastened to pack our belongings
and made ready to return to London by the Hook of Holland.

To the Savoy we went, a company of four. Regnier wished to get back
into the world and to learn of the state of his affairs. We were
anxious to get back to New York by the first steamer we could reach.
I was especially anxious, for Dorothy had agreed, after much urging,
to marry me a month after we reached New York. There were no relatives
to hinder, and Tom, good old chap, seemed almost as glad of our
approaching marriage as ourselves. I wanted to get back for another
reason, too. I had been too long out of the writing game, and I felt
that I could not afford to lose the momentum which my work with regard
to the man who stopped all war had given me. So we secured passage on a
boat leaving Liverpool three days after we reached London.

The day before we sailed, I found a letter in my mail with the royal
arms. It was an invitation to James Orrington, Esq., to be present at
the mustering out of the last regiments of the British army in Hyde
Park that morning.

“We’ll go,” said Dorothy.

As she spoke, a waiter came to my side. “Gentleman to see you, sir.”

I smiled as I rose. “That’s not so thrilling a message now, sweetheart,
as it has been any time these last months.” Outside in the corridor was
a gentleman of rather distinguished appearance, whom I had not seen
before.

“Mr. James Orrington?” he said inquiringly.

I responded affirmatively.

“I am Sir Arthur Braithwaite, one of the King’s equerries,” he said.
“He sent you this by me,” and he handed me a package and withdrew. I
turned away to find Tom and Dorothy just passing. I showed them the
package.

“Come up to my rooms,” said Dorothy eagerly. “We’ll open it there. This
is just like getting Christmas presents.”

The outer layers off showed a square white box. I pressed the spring.
Within lay a golden cigarette case. Its top held an inscription in
exquisitely carved letters. “To James Orrington, Esquire. He served
the State before Himself.” I lifted the case from its bed. Below was a
brief note in the King’s own hand. Beside the address and signature,
it bore these words: “I have never forgotten the service you did to
England, to the world, and to me.”

I looked up. Dorothy’s eyes were veiled in a mist of tears. She came
to me and kissed me. “Dear, I’m so glad, so proud of every bit of
recognition. You deserve all of it,” and Tom wrung my hand with his
old numbing grip, crying, “Bully for you, old man. That’s the first bit
of furniture for the new house.”

There was just time for us to reach Hyde Park before the review, and
we all three crowded into a hansom and sped away. Thousands surrounded
the reviewing field, and it was only with difficulty that we found our
way through. Our card of invitation worked wonders, however, and with
that marvellous command of crowds which the London police possess, we
finally came through and found ourselves at the reviewing stand, just
as the band announced the coming of the troops. The Foot Guards first,
with that strange downthrust of the foot, relic of the marching step
of many decades ago, then the Scots, and then regiment after regiment,
till the whole field was covered with the pride of Britain’s troops
in their most gorgeous panoply of war. The King, in field marshal’s
uniform, stood at the centre. What thoughts must have racked his brain
as he stood there silent, erect, immobile! What visions of the long
line of English sovereigns! What memories of the thousands of reviews
of centuries past, when Britain’s soldiers left for wars of conquest,
or returned, bearing new laurels, offering new lands to the great
island empire! The music ceased. As if by one accord, the ensigns of
the regiments, bearing the old flags, torn by shot and shell, revealing
in golden scroll the record of British prowess, came to the front
and centre. Then, in one long line, forward came the colors. The King
saluted, and they turned and formed a compact mass of brilliant color
on the right. I heard a whispered question and answer.

“What is to be done with the colors?”

“They are to go to the Abbey for a chapel of the flags.”

I watched the pageant, breathless. A hoarse command and the troops
stacked arms; another and the music started up. Proudly, defiantly,
in perfect formation, the troops wheeled and started the march past,
their empty hands swaying at their sides. As they passed, the King
saluted with raised hand, the officers’ swords rising and falling with
regular rhythm. As they passed the gleaming mass of color where stood
the flags, they saluted once more. I could see the tears streaming
from the rugged cheeks of many a war-worn veteran, and my own throat
contracted at the spectacle. The King stood motionless at the salute.
As they formed after the march, and stood for the last time in those
ranks which had so often faced the foe, the general commanding turned
and raised his sword. Cheer upon cheer broke forth for the King, and
I found myself with Tom, good Americans as we were, cheering wildly,
though with dry throats. The King raised his hand and the sound
ceased. He said but a single sentence. “Soldiers of the British
Empire! My soldiers, farewell!” Once more the cheering broke forth,
but through the sound came music, and troop by troop, they wheeled and
marched away. Not till the last man had gone did the King move, and
when he turned I could see his face white and drawn with the agony of
the hour. He walked heavily to his carriage and drove away, lifting his
hat mechanically in response to the salutation of the crowd.

That night Regnier dined with us. I had never seen him so gay, so
brilliant. He was full of his plans for an expedition to the Ural
Mountains in search of some new deposits of platinum, for which he had
obtained a grant from the Russian government. He was the life of our
party, and we parted from him with regret. As he left, I walked out
into the courtyard with him. He turned suddenly.

“Orrington,” he said, “you’ve got the finest girl in the world to be
your wife. You’re not good enough for her. Nobody is, but I’m sure
you’ll make her happy. I’ve loved her for five years. I knew from the
very first I had no chance. Good-bye, and God bless you both.”

I stood and watched him till he passed through the arch and was lost in
the roaring tide of the Strand.

“Poor chap,” I said musingly, as I turned away. “Poor chap.”

The voyage home was uneventful. The month before the wedding we spent
chiefly in making plans for our new home, which was to be a country
home. Slowly dragged the days before the wedding, twenty days, fifteen,
ten, five. At last it came.

As Tom and I came up to the church on the wedding day, the snow was
lying on the narrow lawn, crusting the roof and eaves with glittering
crystals, and turning the ivy to a soft, clinging cloud. The flooding
sunlight, transmitted through the two great windows of the tower, threw
strange hues on the white tapestry and carpet of late winter. From
within sounded the full diapason of the organ, breaking into rivers and
floods of melody as the organist practised his prelude to the wedding
march.

We swung back the door to find ourselves in the midst of a group of
ushers, who fell upon me with one last volley of cheering and jeering
remarks as I hurried through. I hastened by them, laughing, and passed
with Tom to the tiny room beside the organ, where we were to wait
till the moment that Dorothy came. After much discussion, it had been
determined that Dorothy’s uncle should give her away, while Tom acted
as best man.

“It gives me rather more of a share in the proceedings,” he said,--“I
always like to have something doing.”

The body of the church was hidden from our sight, but just before
us rose the altar, lit by brazen candelabra which rested upon the
altar cloth, hanging in heavy folds, and reached to the great
mullioned window overhead, from which the Christ looks down in silent
benediction. As we sat waiting, I breathed a silent prayer that I
might be worthy, that our life together might be consecrated to loving
service, that we might--Tom’s voice broke in on my half formulated
thoughts.

“See the Alpha and Omega embroidered on the altar cloth?”

I nodded.

“And the Alpha of the whole thing came that day in Washington when
you read the letter from ‘the man.’ Here’s a part of the Omega. The
beginning and the end. How little you could dream of all that has
come when you left your office to look up some stupid transports,--or
Dorothy imagine it when she went down to standardize that radium. But
the end will never be complete till we find ‘the man.’ While he roams
the earth with his secret the world is never wholly safe.”

So the thread that had bound Dorothy and me together wove into our
wedding hour. Our conversation ended there however, for at that moment
a low bell tinkled, the first bars of the march began, and I started
forward to meet my bride.

Quietly, reverently, happily, Dorothy and I took up our life together.
Dorothy was never more beautiful, never more womanly and sweet than
when she said “I do” in her low voice, and turned towards me with a
look of loving confidence.

We had two weeks in the South, and then came back by special request to
the Haldane house on the Long Island shore, where Tom had set up the
wave-measuring machine in a laboratory which he had built on a bluff
just above the beach and in which he was still at work on new ideas.

The morning after we arrived, Dorothy and I went out after breakfast to
find Tom, who was bending over an inner cylinder of the machine, while
the belt of metal quietly revolved.

“Got the whole thing set up, just as we used to have it, haven’t you?”
I said.

“Yes,” said Tom. “I’m always on the lookout for ‘the man,’ and then,
too, I’ve got a notion that I can make some changes in the recording
apparatus that will make computation easier.”

“Has the man been experimenting at all lately with his high waves?”
asked Dorothy.

“Yes,” answered Tom. “I leave the machine adjusted for them every
day, but I’ve only heard from him twice. I always keep two or three
uncharged reflectoscopes on hand, as well. Some day he may go to
experimenting where I can get hold of something.”

I stood looking lazily out of the window. A large yacht lay just
offshore, her white sides glistening in the morning sun. There was a
touch of spring in the winter air. Suddenly, before my horror-stricken
eyes, the yacht changed to a confused mass of boards which rose and
fell on the tide. I heard a cry from Tom and Dorothy. “The man!”

I turned. The golden ribbons of the reflectoscopes once more stood
stiffly separate and the moving belt stood still. The beam of light was
just fluttering to rest almost on the zero.

“Out there! Right out there!” I shouted. “Come!” and throwing open the
door, I rushed towards the beach, followed by the others. I pointed to
the mass of wreckage rising and falling on the tide. “There! there!” I
shouted. “He just destroyed that yacht.”

“There’s a survivor,” cried Tom, as we ran stumbling on over the
rocks and sand towards a plank which bore a living man towards shore.
Just as we came to him, he struck bottom and groped forward on his
hands and knees through the waves. He reached the dry sand, rose and
walked towards us. I looked at the man in amazement. I knew those
features, yet they were so strangely drawn and fixed, so dominated by
the dread-compelling power of the eyes that I paused. Then it came to
me. “John King,” I cried in amazement. King came steadily onward. A
lightning flash illumined my brain.

“Are you the man who stopped all war?” I cried eagerly.

Dorothy reached my side and clung to me as John King advanced with
hesitating steps.

“I am,” he answered slowly.

“Then why--then why did you destroy the yacht?” shouted Tom, stammering
in his excitement. “How--how have you lived when the others perished?”

“The time to end had come,” said John, in muffled, solemn tones. “I
alone am immune; I did not think I was.” As he spoke a still more
awful change began to pass over his features. He staggered, stopped,
and put his hand to his brow. “I--am--the--last--victim,” he went on
falteringly. “I--pay--the--final--price.” The last words came in a
thick gasp, “My secret is safe.”

As he said that, he fell, and when we reached him he lay dead. The
expression of his face had changed again. The sombre, awful majesty
which had illumined it was gone. He looked once more like the young lad
I had known and loved in years gone by, whose face so well expressed
his noble spirit, ever impatient of injustice and wrong. After the
weary struggle, his soul was once more poised and at rest. The world
and the man who stopped all war were both at peace.

THE END.

       *       *       *       *       *

“_Mr. Oppenheim’s sixteenth novel--and his best_”

  +-------------+
  | THE AVENGER |
  +-------------+

_By_ E. PHILLIPS OPPENHEIM

Fully Illustrated. Cloth, $1.50

A lively, thrilling, captivating story.--_New York Times Saturday
Review._

It shows power and a sense of the dramatic value of the
unexpected.--_London Evening News._

A capital specimen of the Oppenheim novel, showing Mr. Oppenheim at his
best.--_New York World._

By far the cleverest plot Mr. Oppenheim has invented is introduced in
this story.--_Book News Monthly._

Probably excels any book yet written by this prolific and ingenious
teller of stories.--_Philadelphia Press._

An ingenious and exciting mystery tale. The solution of the mystery is
wholly unexpected.--_New York Sun._

Mr. Oppenheim goes forward and not backward. Each book that comes from
his pen shows a superiority in plot, movement, character drawing, and
literary quality over its predecessors.--_Chicago Record Herald._

Not one reader in a thousand will penetrate the secret of this murder
until just before Mr. Oppenheim reveals it, for it is guarded with
consummate art.... The plot is one of the best that Oppenheim has
devised.--_San Francisco Chronicle._

  LITTLE, BROWN, & CO., PUBLISHERS
  254 WASHINGTON STREET, BOSTON

       *       *       *       *       *

A joyous story.--_Brooklyn Eagle._

  +-------------------+
  | THE ADVENTURES OF |
  |  CHARLES EDWARD   |
  +-------------------+

_By_ HARRISON RHODES

Illustrated by Penrhyn Stanlaws

Cloth, $1.50

The fun is genuine.--_New York Sun._

The humor is subtle and delicious.--_Boston Herald._

One long series of chuckles.--_St. Louis Globe Democrat._

A most refreshing novel, gay, amusing, and fascinating.--_London
Sketch._

Nothing better in a light comedy vein has been issued this
season.--_Springfield Union._

A lively, humorous story which will leave the reader with a hearty
liking for its hero and heroine.--_Baltimore American._

The book is enriched by numerous illustrations of Mr. Stanlaw’s
peculiarly happy and up-to-date type.--_Baltimore Sun._

Charles Edward is as pleasing a person as one could meet in many a day.
He has a most unusual sense of humor and a delight in the ludicrous and
the unexpected.--_The Bookman._

  LITTLE, BROWN, & CO., PUBLISHERS
  254 WASHINGTON STREET, BOSTON

       *       *       *       *       *

A fine masterpiece of French literature.--_Boston Times._

  +---------------+
  | THE WEIGHT OF |
  |   THE NAME    |
  +---------------+

_By_ PAUL BOURGET

Translated by GEORGE BURNHAM IVES

12mo. Cloth. $1.50

A remarkable book.--_Providence Journal._

Easily the leader among recent works of fiction.--_New York World._

The story gains immensely in vitality over his earlier work, because he
has put his heart in it.--_Outlook_, New York.

There is a profound knowledge of human character that lifts this novel
above the plane of ordinary fiction writing.--_Springfield Union._

The book is more than a love story of rare excellence; it is a picture
of the social and political situation in the France of to-day.--_New
Haven Journal and Courier._

Once in its grip there is no escaping its tragic pathos.... The story
is especially appealing to the imagination.--Nathan Haskell Dole in
_New York Evening Post_.

A powerfully told story, dramatic and poignant. It touches the great
emotions and lays bare people’s very souls. Paul Bourget employs high
literary skill, and this story reveals his mastery of the art of making
fiction.--_Philadelphia Record._

  LITTLE, BROWN, & CO., PUBLISHERS
  254 WASHINGTON STREET, BOSTON

       *       *       *       *       *

_The Book President Roosevelt Recommends_

  +------------------+
  |       AUNT       |
  | JANE OF KENTUCKY |
  +------------------+

_By_ ELIZA CALVERT HALL

Illustrated by Beulah Strong. 12mo. Cloth. $1.50

Aunt Jane is perfectly delightful.--_The Outlook_, New York.

A book that plays on the heart strings.--_St. Louis Post-Despatch._

What Mrs. Gaskill did in “Cranford” this author does for
Kentucky.--_Syracuse Herald._

A prose idyl. Nothing more charming has appeared in recent
fiction.--MARGARET E. SANGSTER.

These pages have in them much of the stuff that makes genuine
literature.--_Louisville Courier Journal._

Where so many have made caricatures of old-time country folk, Eliza
Calvert Hall has caught at once the real charm, the real spirit, the
real people, and the real joy of living which was theirs.--_New York
Times._

Have you read that charming little book written by one of your clever
Kentucky women--“Aunt Jane of Kentucky”--by Eliza Calvert Hall? It is
very wholesome and attractive. Be sure that you read it.--PRESIDENT
THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

  LITTLE, BROWN, & CO., PUBLISHERS
  254 WASHINGTON STREET, BOSTON

       *       *       *       *       *

Transcriber’s Notes:

Illustrations have been moved to paragraph breaks near where they are
mentioned.

Punctuation has been made consistent.

Variations in spelling and hyphenation were retained as they appear in
the original publication, except that obvious typos have been corrected.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Man Who Ended War, by Hollis Godfrey

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE MAN WHO ENDED WAR ***

***** This file should be named 49848-0.txt or 49848-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/4/9/8/4/49848/

Produced by Shaun Pinder, Craig Kirkwood, and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This
file was produced from images generously made available
by The Internet Archive.)

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

